eng	business-to-business and
eng	business-to-consumer contracts should
eng	be covered; emphasises that the
eng	[optional instrument] must offer a very
eng	high level of consumer protection, in
eng	order to compensate consumers for the
eng	protection that they would normally
eng	enjoy under their national law; wishes
eng	for further explanation on how this
eng	... to support civil society, to
eng	support the interim transitional
eng	national council and Mr Jibril (we have
eng	had many meetings with him); to support
eng	security sector reform; to build on
eng	what the people told us that they
eng	A more balanced approach has allowed us
eng	to have a joint motion for a resolution
eng	today which will be constructive and
eng	targeted at the opportunities for
eng	closer cooperation between Ukraine and
eng	the European Union, while judicial
eng	reform is carried out in the country
eng	and the anti-corruption measures
eng	Above all, the European Union must
eng	refrain from taking sides in the
eng	According to the Act of Accession,
eng	verification, by means of evaluation
eng	procedures, that the necessary
eng	conditions for the application of all
eng	parts of the Schengen acquis (data
eng	protection, the SIS, air borders, land
eng	borders, sea borders, police
eng	cooperation and visas) have been met by
eng	the new Member States is a precondition
eng	for the Council to decide on the
eng	abolition of checks at internal borders
eng	with those Member States. I did not
eng	endorse this document because taking
eng	into account the results of the
eng	evaluations and the necessary revisits
eng	carried out by teams of experts, the
eng	committee responsible has concluded
eng	that there are some outstanding issues
eng	that will require regular reporting and
eng	a follow-up at some point in the future.
eng	Accordingly, we must assess expected
eng	conditions and specific circumstances
eng	and determine what we have to do to
eng	make sure that Europe exists and does
eng	not end up as a loser.
eng	After 20 years, even Mr Medvedev had to
eng	admit that one cannot ignore the
eng	terrible and criminal heritage of
eng	Russian power. I recall the words of
eng	our colleague, Mr Swoboda, who
eng	yesterday asked for a full clearing up
eng	of Russian history, especially the
eng	atrocities of the Stalin era.
eng	After the adoption of a general
eng	approach by the Council in March, we
eng	got down to business immediately,
eng	engaging in intense trialogue
eng	negotiations with Parliament and the
eng	Air services agreements now fall into
eng	this category, as they cover an area to
eng	which the ordinary legislative
eng	All the Members have had an opportunity
eng	to speak. I allowed them to speak for
eng	at least 15 seconds and even a minute
eng	in some cases, and the balance between
eng	the political groups has been fully
eng	Allow me now to turn to the six
eng	legislative proposals on economic
eng	governance, called the 'six-pack' in
eng	our common jargon. I will not go into
eng	detail as it is on the plenary agenda
eng	Although I am not entirely in favour of
eng	the resources released in this way
eng	being allocated to the Union's budget,
eng	as I think that the Millennium
eng	Development Goals should benefit, at
eng	least in part, I wished to vote for
eng	paragraph 171 to send a positive signal
eng	to the Commission and the Council
eng	regarding the implementation of this
eng	Although some issues remain unresolved,
eng	such as the negative impact on
eng	biodiversity of tar sands extraction
eng	and of some seal-derived products, I
eng	voted in favour not only because the
eng	public procurement problem has
eng	practically been resolved, but also
eng	because of the benefits to the Member
eng	States, and to prevent the negotiations
eng	from suffering any delays.
eng	Although these businesses are not
eng	involved in door-to-door selling, they
eng	naturally make frequent deals with
eng	customers that are concluded with a
eng	Among the conclusions to draw from it,
eng	it should be stressed that the running
eng	costs of these programmes are estimated
eng	to be some EUR 800 million per annum
eng	and that revenue will only reach EUR 80
eng	million per annum by around 2030.
eng	An innovation policy that is consistent
eng	and integrated, and has a long-term
eng	vision will enable us to leverage
eng	strengths and resolve weaknesses
eng	detected at regional level.
eng	Annual growth rates of the market for
eng	GNSS-enabled products and services are
eng	estimated to be above 10%. The
eng	Commission should launch a
eng	comprehensive analysis to identify more
eng	precisely the possible scenarios and
eng	means of operation and exploitation
eng	Antibiotic resistance in livestock and
eng	domestic animals has become a problem
eng	Apart from the threat of accident or
eng	terrorist attack, there is also
eng	considerable evidence of adverse health
eng	effects along Ireland's eastern
eng	seaboard attributed to Sellafield
eng	As Amnesty suggested, however, it is
eng	vital to link these with the TDIP
eng	report and with the follow-up that the
eng	Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice
eng	and Home Affairs (LIBE) has agreed to
eng	take up in a new own-initiative report.
eng	As Mr Reul said, we must, of course,
eng	encourage excellence.
eng	As a representative of the Group of the
eng	European People's Party (Christian
eng	Democrats), I would like to pose a
eng	question to the President of the
eng	Commission, who has been busy dealing
eng	with the pictures that we have been
eng	seeing in recent weeks from the
eng	Mediterranean, where many people
eng	fleeing from the situation in Africa
eng	have made it to Europe, while some have
eng	also failed to make it. We have had to
eng	see the images of these stranded and
eng	dead people on the news.
eng	As advocated by the rapporteur, I too
eng	urge the European Commission to
eng	continue applying pressure to approve
eng	these proposals, as the measures
eng	provided for in the agreement will only
eng	be truly effective at combating
eng	illegal, unreported and unregulated
eng	(IUU) fishing if and when they are
eng	applied in a comprehensive, uniform and
eng	transparent manner, in order to avoid
eng	loopholes that could be easily
eng	exploited by the IUU fishing operators.
eng	As far as the EU's role in multilateral
eng	security organisations is concerned, it
eng	has been said that the regulations
eng	which make it possible for the European
eng	Union to benefit from NATO funding
eng	should be streamlined.
eng	As has been said many times, we are
eng	very close to achieving the goal, but
eng	at the same time it is important that
eng	we are successful in the voting today
eng	and in July. I would also like to thank
eng	Mr Kármán from the Hungarian
eng	Presidency, who has done a splendid job.
eng	As part of our preparatory work, the
eng	Commission is exploring the idea of
eng	candidate countries joining the
eng	initiative after 2019. I would also
eng	inform you that a number of cities in
eng	other third countries have already
eng	As regards our emerging strategic
eng	partners around the globe, we have
eng	witnessed recently how culture can
eng	become an integral part of our external
eng	relations. I am more committed than
eng	ever to advancing further this very
eng	important dimension of our European
eng	As some of my fellow Members have
eng	pointed out, if these points were to be
eng	clarified, the Commission would be well
eng	advised to consult the European
eng	Parliament when issuing a mandate.
eng	As such, its aim is to create a full
eng	picture of when, where, how and on
eng	which animals the antimicrobials are
eng	actually used today, without creating
eng	additional financial or administrative
eng	burdens for farmers or other animal
eng	owners, taking into account the fact
eng	that farming practice and intensity is
eng	different from one Member State to
eng	As the protocol to the current
eng	Fisheries Partnership Agreement will
eng	expire in the future, the Commission's
eng	intention to open renewal negotiations
eng	with the other party is logical.
eng	As we come into the autumn, we need a
eng	serious examination, and we have put
eng	down some 60 questions to the
eng	Commission on this matter, with the aim
eng	of identifying where we are getting
eng	poor implementation.
eng	As yet, the Canadian Government
eng	believes this directive discriminates
eng	between Canadian oil imports and oil
eng	imports from other countries. I
eng	consider the agreement to be too early.
eng	Assistance must also be allocated in a
eng	targeted manner, i.e. linked to climate
eng	At a time when there are no watertight
eng	compartments between countries, we need
eng	to listen very carefully to the uproar
eng	At the Council meeting on 12 May 2011
eng	the Presidency plans to initiate
eng	discussions on the various ideas on the
eng	Schengen acquis which have been put
eng	forward by the Commission in its
eng	communication on migration of 4 May.
eng	At the same time, European Union
eng	countries must also be aware that it is
eng	in their interest for Romania and
eng	Bulgaria to join Schengen because they
eng	will be able to make their own
eng	contribution to the security of all
eng	Member States and extend the Schengen
eng	area, which is set to strengthen the
eng	integration process within the European
eng	Union and the common area of freedom,
eng	security and justice.
eng	At the same time, it is imperative to
eng	ask misleading business directory
eng	companies to cease and desist their
eng	deliberately misleading business
eng	activities, because they are contrary
eng	to the spirit of the Union's
eng	At the same time, we have also got to
eng	grips with the problem of fraud, where
eng	other countries are deceived.
eng	Authorising and legitimising pollution
eng	if it is economically viable for the
eng	company is not a path to
eng	sustainability. I believe that the EU's
eng	priority should be to impose more
eng	stringent measures on pollution caused
eng	by heavy goods vehicles and to commit
eng	decisively to rail freight.
eng	Based on the opinion of the
eng	Consultative Working Party of the legal
eng	services of the European Parliament,
eng	the Council and the Commission, this
eng	report on the proposal for a Council
eng	regulation on denominations and
eng	technical specifications of euro coins
eng	intended for circulation concludes that
eng	the proposal in question is restricted
eng	to the straightforward codification of
eng	the existing texts without any change
eng	Before a European Arrest Warrant is
eng	issued, therefore, consideration should
eng	be given to how serious the offence is,
eng	what the expected penalty is and
eng	whether there is a simpler way of
eng	dealing with the matter.
eng	Bosnians, meanwhile, are characterised
eng	by great friendliness and hospitality.
eng	I recently read the reminiscences of a
eng	Polish student who took part in a
eng	student exchange in Sarajevo - she did
eng	not meet a single foreign student who
eng	was there as part of the exchange who
eng	did not like Sarajevo.
eng	Brussels, which is considered by some
eng	to be second only to Washington as a
eng	mecca for lobbyists, needs proper
eng	regulations and clearly-defined
eng	principles of cooperation between
eng	decision makers and representatives of
eng	various interest groups.
eng	But is he aware that, in his own
eng	government, one of the first acts of
eng	the Home Secretary, Theresa May, when
eng	coming into office was to opt into the
eng	European Investigation Order, which
eng	means we now cannot opt out and will be
eng	stuck with whatever comes through the
eng	legislative sausage machine, because
eng	this will be subject to qualified
eng	majority voting and the final outcome
eng	is something we cannot determine? Is
eng	this another case of Tory double-speak,
eng	where they speak out against the acts
eng	of the European Union here but endorse
eng	them back home in our own parliament?
eng	But we know that Greece has no
eng	intention of leaving the eurozone. I am
eng	in constant contact with both the Greek
eng	authorities and the main opposition
eng	party and I know very well that they do
eng	not want to leave the eurozone.
eng	By being an inn, Cervantes meant lying
eng	still, complaining that one is ignored
eng	and remaining static.
eng	By selecting the right way forwards in
eng	the area of contract law, it is
eng	possible to contribute in a significant
eng	way to the better functioning of the
eng	Single Market and to making its full
eng	potential available to businesses
eng	(especially small and medium-sized
eng	ones) and consumers.
eng	Can the Commission provide information
eng	on consumer awareness of the quality
eng	food schemes? How can recognition of
eng	the PDO, PGI and TSG labels be improved
eng	and made more relevant to consumers, in
eng	particular, in Member States that have
eng	few registered products?
eng	Chemistry has made possible vaccines
eng	and antibiotics that have doubled our
eng	life expectancy, and it is key to
eng	developing new energy sources and
eng	Climate change is threatening European
eng	forests, with an increase in forest
eng	fires, with diseases passing from one
eng	country to another and putting entire
eng	species at risk, and with disasters
eng	caused by extreme weather conditions.
eng	Coming up with a viable solution to the
eng	sovereign debt crisis and the need to
eng	strengthen the euro, return to a path
eng	of sustainable growth and create new
eng	jobs depend on efficient coordination
eng	between Member States and strengthening
eng	the Stability and Growth Pact.
eng	Commissioner, just like you, we want to
eng	stick to the procedure ensuring that
eng	this entire process is conducted
eng	correctly, and we await the final
eng	opinion of the Venice Commission,
eng	although it is now clear from the
eng	preliminary conclusions presented in
eng	the Committee on Civil Liberties,
eng	Justice and Home Affairs by the
eng	Secretary of the Venice Commission, Mr
eng	Markert, that the current Hungarian
eng	constitution is, in a number of points,
eng	controversial to say the least.
eng	Conclusion number one reads: 'in
eng	considering the direct causes of the
eng	Fukushima accident, we see no reason
eng	for curtailing the operation of nuclear
eng	power plants or other nuclear
eng	facilities in the UK'. Conclusion two
eng	reads: 'in response to the Fukushima
eng	accident, the UK nuclear power industry
eng	has reacted responsibly and
eng	appropriately, displaying leadership
eng	for safety and a strong safety culture
eng	in its response to date'. Conclusion
eng	four reads: 'to date, the consideration
eng	of the known circumstances of the
eng	Fukushima accident has not revealed any
eng	gaps in scope or depth of the safety
eng	assessment principles for nuclear
eng	facilities in the UK'.
eng	Consider this: only a year ago, the
eng	euro area Member States agreed on a
eng	conditional loan package to Greece in
eng	order to prevent a meltdown of our
eng	Cooperation between the Commission and
eng	Parliament is essential, not only for a
eng	good start in shaping the proposal, but
eng	also for a happy end to the
eng	negotiations which are extremely
eng	difficult in the present context.
eng	Countless factors have a bearing on
eng	this growth, which is not unconnected
eng	to the deepening of the crisis of
eng	capitalism and its social effects in
eng	Croatia, as a candidate country for EU
eng	membership, has a duty to adapt its
eng	legal system to the system which is in
eng	force in the countries of the Union. I
eng	think that Croatia's participation in
eng	the work of the European Monitoring
eng	Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is
eng	extremely important, particularly
eng	because Croatia is a transit route.
eng	Currently, too many young people are
eng	dropping out of school too early and
eng	not enough are taking advantage of
eng	Despite already being the object of
eng	resolutions of this Parliament, the
eng	last of which was in 2010, the old
eng	request that the country of origin be
eng	marked and that information be made
eng	available about the origin of various
eng	goods has been postponed.
eng	Despite the success of this vote, given
eng	the cross-border implications for the
eng	safety and health of European citizens,
eng	I regret the minor role that Parliament
eng	has been given in nuclear matters as it
eng	has only a consultative role in this
eng	Do more in Syria and do not lend your
eng	support to half-baked solutions.
eng	Domestic workers are currently excluded
eng	from the Maternity Leave Directive and
eng	from any European legislation
eng	guaranteeing the right to maternity
eng	protection, and they are not even
eng	covered by the Health and Safety
eng	Framework Directive.
eng	During the negotiations with the EU
eng	Council of Ministers, the inclusion of
eng	new provisions in the regulation was
eng	very important, such as those requiring
eng	the indication of animal-derived
eng	materials in textile products and
eng	conducting a study to determine whether
eng	there is a causal link between allergic
eng	reactions and chemicals or mixtures
eng	used in textile products.
eng	Early years education has far-reaching
eng	implications on children's future
eng	development and their chances of
eng	success later on. Investments made
eng	during this period reduce the costs
eng	incurred later relating to health
eng	matters, the crime rate and antisocial
eng	Enforcement measures to correct
eng	excessive macroeconomic imbalances in
eng	Essentially, this prevents the creation
eng	of an internal market in the European
eng	Union that is more geared towards and
eng	favourable to small business.
eng	Europe needs an ever-growing number of
eng	its school pupils and students to come
eng	into contact with a new social,
eng	educational and cultural model. I
eng	believe that the mobility programmes
eng	aimed at young people will successfully
eng	bring about a real change in the
eng	attitude of Europe's young people and
eng	create a shared vision for them about
eng	what Europe stands for, in areas from
eng	education, science and research to
eng	culture and our common values.
eng	European companies have had improved
eng	access to telecommunications, car
eng	manufacturing, retail and the insurance
eng	sector in Japan, and that has not
eng	damaged the Japanese economy but has,
eng	in fact, encouraged innovation and
eng	development in Japan.
eng	Evaluation is nothing if the results
eng	are not presented, discussed,
eng	questioned, and indeed either accepted
eng	or sometimes rejected, by the very
eng	stakeholders that it aims to serve,
eng	and, of course, Parliament plays a
eng	vital role in this process, not only
eng	bringing to bear a broad cross-section
eng	of experience from political and public
eng	life but, just as importantly, from the
eng	many fields of deep knowledge held by
eng	Even though all of the requirements for
eng	an inclusive, sustainable and
eng	competitive Europe are included, there
eng	is nevertheless no way in the world
eng	that we could finance everything all at
eng	once from the EU budget. I want a
eng	realistic and implementable negotiating
eng	strategy and this has not been
eng	achieved, as no clear priorities have
eng	been set in this report. I therefore
eng	abstained in the final vote.
eng	Everyone is free to react and criticise
eng	the content, because everything works
eng	out through debates and interchanges of
eng	opinions in the European Union, and it
eng	is true that many Member States have
eng	criticised the content already.
eng	Faced with this inevitable catastrophe,
eng	the 2020 strategy had to aim at
eng	increasing the attractiveness of
eng	vocational education and training.
eng	Finally, I congratulate Commissioner
eng	Oettinger for finding a consensus on
eng	the criteria and the practical details
eng	of implementing the stress tests for
eng	nuclear installations, which will
eng	enable us to ensure the highest safety
eng	levels in the world.
eng	Finally, I would like to note how very
eng	important it is for the Commission's
eng	proposal to incorporate and rely even
eng	more fully on the strategy document
eng	'GDP and beyond: measuring progress in
eng	a changing world'. A consistent,
eng	systematic approach will perhaps be
eng	more crucial than anything else in
eng	efforts to improve the way quality of
eng	Finally, in a context in which a
eng	significant part of the economy depends
eng	on multinational companies, there is
eng	also a need for organisations to be
eng	socially responsible.
eng	Finally, the rapporteur also covered
eng	one fundamental issue: opposition to
eng	absolute strategic autonomy as the
eng	final outcome of the CSDP.
eng	Financial markets and institutions have
eng	to take into account, as part of their
eng	corporate social responsibility, the
eng	interests of all parties involved,
eng	including clients, shareholders and
eng	First, the Commission calls on the EU
eng	Member States to exercise a
eng	proportionality test when they call for
eng	an Arrest Warrant, and to fill the gaps
eng	where their legislation fails to fully
eng	comply with the framework decision
eng	setting up the Arrest Warrant.
eng	Firstly, minimum rules on the right to
eng	interpretation and translation, which
eng	were adopted already in 2010.
eng	Firstly, we need to encourage the
eng	mobility and attractiveness of cultural
eng	factors, such as the mobility of
eng	artists, cultural workers and works of
eng	art and, secondly, we need to ensure
eng	that specific funding and economic
eng	support policies are put in place in
eng	the cultural sector, such as access to
eng	funds via the European Investment Bank.
eng	Following the disastrous euro rescue
eng	package, which simply involved the net
eng	contributors taking a hit for the
eng	mismanagement and corruption in a few
eng	southern states, the plan is now to ask
eng	the already overburdened citizens of
eng	the net contributor countries to cough
eng	For all these reasons, I shall be
eng	voting in favour of this motion for a
eng	For example, the report states that the
eng	purpose of development policy should
eng	not be to defend the EU's interests,
eng	but rather those of the most vulnerable
eng	populations on the planet.
eng	For me, education must be a political
eng	For that reason, it gives me great
eng	pleasure to hear Commissioner Reding
eng	say that Member States will be required
eng	to exercise a proportionality test and
eng	to take care not to issue arrest
eng	warrants for minor offences.
eng	For the time being, the Commission has
eng	no plans to amend the framework
eng	directive on occupational safety and
eng	For this reason, I welcome the support
eng	the EU has pledged in order to help
eng	build this new state.
eng	For us, it is not about making
eng	transport more expensive, as has just
eng	Fourthly, the coverage of other
eng	important Union policies beyond
eng	electronic communications: here, I am
eng	talking about the environment,
eng	transport or research and the need to
eng	make a substantial amount of spectrum
eng	From the outset, parents are thus seen
eng	as incapable, irresponsible and
eng	Furthermore I wish to emphasise here
eng	what is, in my view, the most important
eng	aspect of the agreement reached with
eng	the Council, namely, the commitment by
eng	the European Commission to present, by
eng	30 September 2013, after it has carried
eng	out a suitable impact assessment, a
eng	report accompanied by legislative
eng	proposals regarding indication of
eng	origin labelling, traceability and the
eng	use of new technologies.
eng	Furthermore, if the free trade
eng	agreement is to reflect each party's
eng	level of development, it cannot
eng	overlook such fundamental standards as
eng	the prohibition of child labour, for
eng	Furthermore, the EU's diverse cultural
eng	landscape gives us the distinction of
eng	being the most attractive tourist
eng	destination in the world. I welcome the
eng	concrete suggestions presented in this
eng	report for the involvement of civil
eng	society, artists, educators, students
eng	and entrepreneurs in shaping the
eng	content of external cultural relations.
eng	Furthermore, this surveillance should
eng	be broadened to prevent harmful
eng	macroeconomic imbalances, with a
eng	guarantee that, in future, it will go
eng	beyond fiscal policy and that its remit
eng	will be extended to early detection and
eng	prevention of potentially harmful
eng	economic imbalances, too.
eng	Given his experience in this area, I
eng	believe I can safely endorse his
eng	evaluation, and his demands for
eng	external border security.
eng	Given the added value of Commission
eng	aid, and the Commission's new role in
eng	coordinating the Union's and the Member
eng	States' development policy (Article 210
eng	TFEU), the share of ODA channelled
eng	through the EU budget should remain at
eng	Given this and the importance of the
eng	office of President of the European
eng	Central Bank, I believe that Mr Draghi
eng	fulfils all the conditions to perform
eng	the mandate for which he has now been
eng	nominated with skill and dedication.
eng	Greening events dealing with the
eng	environment in Pillar 1 must be clear,
eng	properly designed and easy to measure,
eng	and funding for Pillar 2 must be strong
eng	Having consulted with the political
eng	groups, I would like to submit to the
eng	House the following proposed amendments
eng	to the final version of the draft
eng	Helping other countries to construct
eng	stable democratic societies in
eng	countries governed by the rule of law,
eng	where human rights are observed and
eng	freedom of speech is guaranteed, with a
eng	solid judicial system, territorial
eng	defence and armed forces, is a
eng	commendable plan. I hope that we will
eng	succeed in putting it into effect on a
eng	wider scale, making even more efficient
eng	High unemployment among young people is
eng	one of the Commission's top priorities
eng	and is one of my foremost personal
eng	How can you talk about regional
eng	cooperation programmes with third
eng	countries when the democrats of Tunisia
eng	and Libya are seeing us closing our
eng	countries' borders? Is it possible to
eng	talk about that? We cannot say
eng	However, Article 51 of the Charter
eng	states that its provisions are
eng	addressed to the institutions, bodies,
eng	offices and agencies of the EU, with
eng	due regard for the principle of
eng	subsidiarity, and to the Member States
eng	only when they are implementing EU law.
eng	However, I do not believe that the
eng	register's primary aim is solely to
eng	combat corruption as the instances of
eng	corruption have, however, been very few
eng	However, I voted in favour of the
eng	tabled amendments, which substantially
eng	mitigate the negative impact of the
eng	proposal: safeguard clause, limit of
eng	one year and the human rights clause.
eng	However, and this concerns Mr
eng	Stavrakakis, there is also a need for
eng	improved cooperation with the other
eng	funds in this area and, in particular,
eng	the fund for rural development.
eng	However, despite all the efforts of the
eng	Commission to improve its impact
eng	assessment as well as those that we
eng	have made in this regard in the
eng	European Parliament, the quality of the
eng	impact assessment is still in need of
eng	However, if we transfer more
eng	responsibilities to the EU, expecting
eng	it to finance ambitious projects,
eng	while, at the same time, cutting
eng	funding, then we will be guilty of
eng	acting against solidarity within the
eng	European Union because we will
eng	encourage internal divisions in the
eng	fight for funds, for example, in
eng	However, it is also absolutely our duty
eng	not to leave our producers high and dry
eng	when it is through no fault of their
eng	own that they have found themselves in
eng	this situation that threatens their
eng	However, just as we remember the
eng	victims from the Baltic States, we also
eng	think of the Armenians, who were
eng	expelled from Turkey at the start of
eng	However, some western German regions
eng	require European aid, as do parts of
eng	However, the choice made today
eng	strengthens the cooperation between the
eng	two parties, and promotes a partnership
eng	capable of developing sustainable
eng	fishing and of exploiting the resources
eng	of Seychelles in a balanced way.
eng	However, the reality in this and in
eng	other sectors which have seen increased
eng	liberalisation, such as rail transport,
eng	belies these promises of benefits.
eng	However, there are very many domains
eng	which can contribute to synergies or
eng	economies of scale: the European
eng	External Action Service, humanitarian
eng	aid and civil protection, pooling of
eng	resources in defence, research and
eng	innovation, major infrastructure
eng	projects (especially in the areas of
eng	energy and transport).
eng	However, this must not result in those
eng	countries and those farmers which
eng	already have very ambitious
eng	environmental programmes in the second
eng	pillar being discriminated against by
eng	this new approach. A solution needs to
eng	be found here that is fair to both
eng	However, we came to the view that we
eng	needed to look a little more into what
eng	was behind this case.
eng	However, we will also need public
eng	participation across national borders.
eng	Hungary, Latvia, Romania, outside the
eng	euro area, Ireland, Spain, Portugal,
eng	the United Kingdom and Greece too,
eng	apart from a break of four years, when
eng	our lot were in. In other words, your
eng	economic model does not work.
eng	I also consider it very important to
eng	support lifelong learning and
eng	activities that are not just for young
eng	people. I would definitely like to
eng	emphasise equal opportunities for all,
eng	not only in terms of gender equality,
eng	but also for disabled or otherwise
eng	disadvantaged people.
eng	I am concerned that the current
eng	budgetary constraints imposed on Member
eng	States may lead to greater restrictions
eng	on investment in research and
eng	innovation, with obvious negative
eng	effects on European growth and
eng	competitiveness. I therefore call on
eng	the Commission to consider leveraging
eng	the resources of the common strategic
eng	framework for funding these sectors,
eng	particularly the research and
eng	innovation sectors of the European
eng	I am in favour of this own-initiative
eng	report since it deals with promoting
eng	corporate social responsibility as a
eng	voluntary motivational tool designed to
eng	stimulate business growth.
eng	I am therefore in favour of the
eng	creation of additional indicators for
eng	measuring medium- and long-term social
eng	and economic progress, for example,
eng	indicators that take account of climate
eng	change, biodiversity, resource
eng	efficiency and social inclusion.
eng	I am voting for this report because it
eng	includes a range of concerns
eng	highlighted by the Group of the
eng	Progressive Alliance of Socialists and
eng	Democrats in the European Parliament
eng	(S&D), by acknowledging the limitations
eng	of gross domestic product (GDP) and the
eng	need to include additional indicators
eng	to measure economic and social progress
eng	in the medium and long terms. I would
eng	also draw attention to the
eng	establishment of clear and measurable
eng	indicators that take into account
eng	climate change, biodiversity, efficient
eng	resource utilisation and social
eng	inclusion, which could help lead to a
eng	more inclusive society based on
eng	knowledge, and to lower carbon
eng	I believe it is, therefore, very
eng	important that the final resolution
eng	includes a clear call for full
eng	effective investigation into the
eng	European Union Member States'
eng	complicity and their renditions and
eng	secret detention programmes.
eng	I believe that we are witnessing a
eng	trend whereby national constitutions
eng	are seen as an area where there is no
eng	room for political debate among
eng	European democracies.
eng	I congratulate my colleague Mr Pieper
eng	and all the rapporteurs for the
eng	excellent report that was presented.
eng	I endorsed adoption of the directive. I
eng	think the decision to extend the
eng	financing of Eurovignettes by external
eng	costs, in other words, by the costs of
eng	environmental pollution and noise, is
eng	more advisable than the previous
eng	version, which was restricted only to
eng	covering the costs of road
eng	I fully support Ms Pack's initiative
eng	and I want to ask Parliament to support
eng	it and to do everything we can to
eng	include Sarajevo as a European cultural
eng	capital. I believe that, if we all want
eng	this, it absolutely can be possible,
eng	because it would be very disappointing
eng	if our ideas and common sense were to
eng	be blocked by bureaucracy.
eng	I have taken note of the assessment of
eng	the report on the policy options
eng	presented in the Green Paper and the
eng	support for the innovative solution of
eng	an optional instrument, which means no
eng	harmonisation but giving consumers and
eng	businesses a choice of having a
eng	Europe-wide system. I have also seen
eng	the support for an instrument
eng	applicable in both B2C and B2B
eng	transactions, which favours a material
eng	scope covering sales contracts,
eng	contracts for the supply of digital
eng	content and some service contracts. I
eng	have taken very good note of what has
eng	been said by Parliament, namely, that
eng	any future instrument, whatever it
eng	looks like, should give consumers a
eng	high level of protection in order not
eng	to deprive them of the protection they
eng	would otherwise enjoy under national
eng	I hope that this kind of problem,
eng	whereby the Council discharge has been
eng	postponed by Parliament, will never
eng	come up in the future again so I ask
eng	that even during the Hungarian
eng	Presidency we should have a political
eng	discussion and agreement.
eng	I particularly welcome the call for at
eng	least 70% of budget funding to be spent
eng	on territorial cooperation in
eng	cross-border collaboration, on the one
eng	hand, and for the funding for
eng	territorial cooperation to be increased
eng	from a level of 2.5% in the current
eng	programming period to at least 7% of
eng	total budget funding in the next
eng	I should like to express my pride at
eng	the European Parliament's broadly
eng	favourable view in support of the
eng	appointment of the new President of the
eng	European Central Bank (ECB), Mario
eng	I support the report on the mid-term
eng	review of the Seventh Framework
eng	Programme of the European Union for
eng	research, technological development and
eng	demonstration activities because I
eng	believe that it truly reflects what has
eng	been achieved, as well as existing
eng	I supported today's report calling for
eng	a joint register of lobbyists and
eng	interest groups to be set up. This is a
eng	first step towards greater transparency
eng	in both the European Parliament and
eng	Commission. A 'transparency register'
eng	will improve ease of access for
eng	citizens wishing to find specific
eng	information regarding which
eng	organisations and individuals have
eng	contact with both MEPs and Commission
eng	I therefore welcome the adoption of
eng	this report, which represents a major
eng	step forward in consumer protection. I
eng	also welcome the option taken by the
eng	Council of restricting this directive
eng	to door-to-door and Internet sales - a
eng	market that is expanding significantly,
eng	but in which consumers still feel a
eng	little lost - and I approve of the
eng	simplification measures adopted, not
eng	least the possibility of consumers, but
eng	not companies, rescinding contracts by
eng	I think this resolution on the EU-India
eng	Free Trade Agreement should be rejected.
eng	I voted against the potential adoption
eng	of EU harmonisation of credit rating
eng	agencies as the standards may vary, and
eng	necessarily so, between Member States.
eng	I voted for the report because the
eng	transmission of pathogenic bacteria
eng	carrying AMR genes constitutes a
eng	particular threat to people, through
eng	the intake of said bacteria and/or
eng	through daily contact with animals. I
eng	believe that commitment to research is
eng	essential, as it contributes to the
eng	development of antimicrobials as an
eng	effective tool in the fight against
eng	diseases afflicting both people and
eng	I voted for this report because I
eng	believe that the cultural and creative
eng	industries should constitute an added
eng	value for the Union. A European statute
eng	for artists based on favourable working
eng	conditions and tax regimes would
eng	promote Europe as a dynamic and
eng	challenging environment in which to
eng	live and work, making it attractive to
eng	skilled and creative individuals.
eng	I voted for this resolution because the
eng	statement identifies the main problems
eng	and priorities for the EU in the new
eng	Multiannual Financial Framework. I
eng	should particularly like to emphasise
eng	the call contained in the resolution
eng	for the Commission to present proposals
eng	for an effective and efficient EU
eng	common agricultural policy (CAP), which
eng	would more fairly distribute direct
eng	payments between Member States and
eng	farmers, and strengthen the link
eng	between delivery of public goods to
eng	society and support payments to
eng	farmers. I fully support the call for
eng	the funds allocated to the CAP in the
eng	budget year 2013 to be maintained at
eng	the same level for the next financial
eng	programming period also, so that the
eng	CAP can fulfil its expanded objectives
eng	I voted in favour of granting 2009
eng	discharge to the European Agency for
eng	the Management of Operational
eng	Cooperation at the External Borders of
eng	the Member States of the European Union
eng	(Frontex) because, as the report
eng	states, its accounts and transactions,
eng	taken as a whole, are shown in the
eng	analysis to be positive, regular and
eng	I voted in favour of the alternative
eng	motion for a resolution on corporate
eng	governance in financial institutions as
eng	it tables proposals which would ensure
eng	improvements in corporate governance
eng	structures throughout the EU, taking
eng	into account the fact that the
eng	financial sector must respond to the
eng	needs of the real economy, contribute
eng	to sustainable growth and demonstrate
eng	greater social responsibility.
eng	I voted in favour of the report on the
eng	Protocol extending to customs security
eng	measures the Agreement in the form of
eng	an Exchange of Letters between the
eng	European Economic Community and the
eng	Principality of Andorra, since it
eng	encourages trade between both parties
eng	while ensuring a high level of customs
eng	security and consistency between the
eng	agreement and the EU acquis.
eng	I voted in favour of this document,
eng	codifying Council Directive 80/181/EEC
eng	of 20 December 1979 on the
eng	approximation of the laws of the Member
eng	States relating to units of measurement
eng	and the repeal of Directive 71/354/EEC.
eng	I voted in favour of this report
eng	because I agree that demographic
eng	changes and increasing longevity mean
eng	that working lives will be more varied,
eng	and retraining and participation in
eng	lifelong learning have already become a
eng	I voted in favour of this report, but I
eng	think we should have been clearer and
eng	stronger in our demands when it comes
eng	to the mechanism of sanctions and
eng	I voted to give discharge to Frontex,
eng	but observe that the Court of Auditors
eng	reported, for the second year running,
eng	that the agency paid out amounts on the
eng	basis of unilateral grant decisions
eng	signed by the agency, while the rules
eng	in force make no provision for this
eng	type of instrument. I note that the
eng	amount paid out was more than EUR 28
eng	000 000 in 2009, and was EUR 17 000 000
eng	in 2008. I welcome, nevertheless, the
eng	agency's initiative, made in response
eng	to the Court's observation, of signing
eng	a framework Partnership Agreement with
eng	Member State border authorities.
eng	I want to raise one issue concerning
eng	Article 17 in the proposed Convention,
eng	which is about the role of agencies. I
eng	think this is something that we really
eng	should be looking at at European level
eng	because, increasingly, it is being seen
eng	as a weak link in many of the issues
eng	I welcome the Council's annual report
eng	and the efforts made to develop a
eng	European foreign policy. I consider it
eng	of the utmost importance to adopt a
eng	position which is harmonious with the
eng	Member States' foreign policies, since
eng	such cohesion will lead to peace,
eng	security, solidarity and conflict
eng	prevention at international level.
eng	I welcome the fact that Parliament is
eng	particularly pressing for agreements
eng	concluded by the European Union to
eng	include mutual recognition of aviation
eng	security and safety standards, as well
eng	as better safeguards for the protection
eng	of passenger rights.
eng	I welcomed this document because this
eng	report is a response to the
eng	Commission's Communication on the
eng	mid-term review of the autonomous
eng	European Global Navigation Satellite
eng	Systems (GNSS) (Galileo and EGNOS),
eng	which assesses the process and
eng	implementation so far and launches the
eng	debate on its future governance,
eng	exploitation and financing.
eng	I would also like to call on the
eng	Commission to concentrate more, when
eng	performing impact assessments, on the
eng	transparency of the entire assessment
eng	process, to strive harder for its
eng	independence, and not to aim for just
eng	one solution to a problem in its
eng	proposals, but to assess multiple
eng	variant solutions to a specific
eng	situation independently. I would also
eng	like to call for a simplification of
eng	the process of public consultations,
eng	and an extension of the deadlines for
eng	submitting concrete proposals,
eng	including the possibility of submitting
eng	proposals in all official languages of
eng	I would like to ask what the position
eng	of the European Commission is regarding
eng	the restructuring of government debt.
eng	I would like to make five comments.
eng	I would like to urge the Commission to
eng	speed up the gathering of research from
eng	all Member States, but also to support
eng	new research into antibiotics that
eng	would be effective for humans and would
eng	If Europe wants to successfully achieve
eng	the ambitious objectives of the Europe
eng	2020 strategy, which place particular
eng	stress on innovation, research and
eng	training, it will have to invest in
eng	better qualified young people, opting
eng	for forms of education that are more
eng	geared towards future incorporation
eng	into the labour market and paying
eng	particular attention to knowledge that
eng	really prepares young people for the
eng	If courts in the European Union are now
eng	ruling that Dublin II is to be
eng	ineffective - in other words, that
eng	refugees are not to be deported to
eng	their states of first arrival - then we
eng	must ask the Commission how committed
eng	it will be to taking action against
eng	those states that are obviously not
eng	currently implementing the existing law.
eng	If that is what we are being asked to
eng	think, it really is unbelievable.
eng	If the supply of energy resources is
eng	not exploited as a political tool, if
eng	it applies equal, transparent and
eng	non-discriminatory rules to all market
eng	players, if Russia makes an objective
eng	choice to make use of our existing
eng	mutual dependence in the field of
eng	energy in a collaborative way, based on
eng	specific, fair and legally binding
eng	principles, we shall be able to speak
eng	of a new era in the development of a
eng	If we agree that the value of the
eng	European Union is much more than the
eng	sum of the 27 Member States that
eng	comprise it, if we are in favour of
eng	high quality, responsible agriculture,
eng	if we want to achieve the Millennium
eng	Development Goals, if we want to help
eng	our Mediterranean neighbours in their
eng	transition towards democracy, if we
eng	want to keep investing in research and
eng	innovation, if we want to carry on
eng	fighting climate change and investing
eng	in education, training and Erasmus
eng	grants, if we still believe in the
eng	cohesion policy as a tool for
eng	sustainable development and solidarity
eng	between our countries, and if we still
eng	support, for example, trans-European
eng	energy and transport networks - in
eng	short, if we still want more Europe -
eng	then we must call for a bigger budget
eng	for the European Union.
eng	If we fail - and I say we and I really
eng	mean us all - they will simply say that
eng	'Europe' has failed.
eng	If we want to implement the instrument
eng	efficiently, this naturally represents
eng	a transfer of powers from the national
eng	capitals here to Brussels.
eng	If, today, we bring in economic
eng	sanctions, we can expect that the
eng	scandalous trials and the scandalous
eng	repression will finally end, because it
eng	is only this language which Lukashenko
eng	Improving the Member States'
eng	development and growth plans,
eng	optimising the coordination of
eng	budgetary policies and strengthening
eng	the procedures for monitoring deficits
eng	and national debt are just some of the
eng	priorities to be pursued.
eng	In 2013, 800 MHz will be freed up, in
eng	2015, 1 200 MHz, and that is badly
eng	needed if Europe wants to remain
eng	amongst the global frontrunners.
eng	In North Africa and the Arab world,
eng	that destination will not be reached
eng	quickly or without setbacks, but
eng	building deep democracy is the only way
eng	that destination will be reached at all.
eng	In a speech on 7 April of this year,
eng	your colleague, Commissioner Potočnik,
eng	announced that, despite the Commission
eng	having avoided this issue and done
eng	nothing for many years, he intended
eng	presenting a communication in the
eng	autumn of this year in which he would
eng	tackle the problem, in particular with
eng	regard to implementation of existing
eng	regulations and an improved inspection
eng	system, as well as a broadening of the
eng	In addition, I believe that if a Member
eng	State would like to extend the scope of
eng	application of European law to domestic
eng	transactions as well, it should be free
eng	to do so. It is very true to say that
eng	this is not the solution to every
eng	In addition, the package we put forward
eng	last week urges rational reflection,
eng	taking into account short-term needs
eng	for strengthened external borders as
eng	well as a broader approach to asylum
eng	In anticipation of the White Paper, the
eng	legislation now envisaged requires the
eng	Member States and the Commission to
eng	take the next steps towards a more
eng	sustainable and interoperational
eng	transport system, with a harmonised
eng	charging system internalising more
eng	In conclusion, therefore, I believe it
eng	is necessary that the 2012 budget is
eng	able to respond to the challenges
eng	Europe is facing in a more concrete
eng	In fact, Agriculture Ministers are
eng	holding an extraordinary Council
eng	meeting today to address E coli.
eng	In fact, the ability to recreate
eng	something offered to us and, on that
eng	basis, give rise to something new, is
eng	fundamental to the development of any
eng	economy and, above all, to achieving
eng	In its initial assessment of the
eng	potential FTA between the EU and India,
eng	the Centre for the Analysis of Regional
eng	Integration at Sussex concluded that
eng	any gains would depend on the extent to
eng	which the text identified and dealt
eng	with the key areas which the
eng	Commissioner specifically mentioned,
eng	such as government procurement,
eng	services, investment in trade
eng	In my country's constitution, there is
eng	no mention of this issue, and so when
eng	will the European Parliament be holding
eng	a debate on the Italian constitution?
eng	Moreover, it is rather strange because,
eng	in my country, the only party that
eng	wants to change the constitution is Mr
eng	Berlusconi's centre-right party.
eng	In my opinion, the establishment of
eng	high quality international cooperation
eng	in the fight against the illegal drugs
eng	trade, not only at the European level
eng	but especially at the global level,
eng	would be one way to improve the
eng	effectiveness of the fight against this
eng	In my view, there will be no
eng	multiannual budgets from 2014 onward so
eng	long as those declarations from Member
eng	States are not given.
eng	In order to avoid red tape and
eng	facilitate companies' access to
eng	European funding, simpler and more
eng	transparent procedures are absolutely
eng	In order to prevent this crisis
eng	becoming any worse, therefore, we need
eng	to take action regarding the fisheries
eng	sector's problems; swift and
eng	far-reaching action.
eng	In other words, with these problems of
eng	a railway alternative, the truth is
eng	that the agreement on the Eurovignette
eng	is now imposing even greater burdens on
eng	the transportation of products by road,
eng	which, in the peripheral countries,
eng	particularly in the south and in the
eng	east, are products of little or limited
eng	In particular, efforts should be made
eng	to find a satisfactory solution to the
eng	problem of rules of origin so that
eng	products from other North American Free
eng	Trade Agreement members do not follow
eng	in the wake of Canadian products.
eng	In practical terms, the conclusions
eng	show that, while attention has been
eng	focused on improving long-term
eng	competitiveness, the objectives of
eng	improving the environment, enhancing
eng	quality of life and promoting
eng	coordination and communication have not
eng	been implemented strongly enough.
eng	In response to rumours about a cut in
eng	funding under the second pillar of the
eng	common agricultural policy, I repeat
eng	that I am in favour of guaranteeing
eng	adequate financial resources for rural
eng	In terms of horizontal agreements, it
eng	is also important to align existing
eng	bilateral agreements with EU law, so as
eng	to ensure greater legal certainty,
eng	increase transparency and provide
eng	additional benefits in terms of
eng	simplification, while ensuring that all
eng	Union airlines will enjoy the same
eng	In the European Union, we also have
eng	countries that are facing the same kind
eng	of difficulties because of very high
eng	levels of expenditure.
eng	In the communication, the Commission
eng	suggests various new initiatives in
eng	several priority areas for further
eng	In the final analysis, irrespective of
eng	all the transparency achieved, it all
eng	comes down to the moral compass of each
eng	Member of this House, as this dictates
eng	what he thinks is right, whom he meets
eng	and whom he decides not to meet, whom
eng	he listens to and whom he decides not
eng	to listen to. After all, people also
eng	contact us using many other different
eng	communication channels.
eng	In the light of this, it is difficult
eng	to understand why the conservative,
eng	liberal and eurosceptic Members of this
eng	House have blindly attempted to toughen
eng	up the text proposed by the Commission.
eng	In the plenary sitting of 6 April 2011,
eng	the President announced, in accordance
eng	with Rule 6(2) of the European
eng	Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that
eng	he had received a letter from the
eng	National Anti-Corruption Department
eng	(Prosecutor's Office of the High Court
eng	of Cassation and Justice of Romania) on
eng	5 April 2011 requesting the waiver of
eng	the parliamentary immunity of Adrian
eng	In the wake of the financial crisis and
eng	the ongoing need to reduce budget
eng	deficits across Europe, Parliament must
eng	recognise that the cohesion budget
eng	cannot continue to grow, unchecked.
eng	In this context, I would like
eng	particularly to refer to the debate on
eng	origin labelling for slaughter cattle
eng	which needs to be resolved, as well as
eng	tariff-related and technical obstacles,
eng	such as protracted approval procedures
eng	In this regard, I confirm that I have
eng	authorised my staff to continue down
eng	our chosen path, because the Commission
eng	has always supported origin labelling
eng	both for products made in the European
eng	Union and for those that are imported.
eng	In this respect, I have to say that
eng	your refusal and that of the Council to
eng	allow the European Parliament to
eng	participate in establishing
eng	macroeconomic indicators through
eng	delegated acts does not seem to me to
eng	be the right approach.
eng	In this sense, the report suggests a
eng	single strategic framework for the
eng	European Regional Development Fund
eng	(ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund
eng	for Rural Development (EAFRD), the
eng	European Social Fund (ESF) and the
eng	European Fisheries Fund (EFF). Ensuring
eng	a common approach to these various
eng	regional funds will also serve to
eng	prevent overlapping and confusion for
eng	those economic operators at regional
eng	and local level who are interested in
eng	receiving European funding for a
eng	In view of the above, such a system
eng	cannot be successfully introduced
eng	without penalties, and without
eng	restrictive penalties, as some have
eng	In view of this change, the Committee
eng	on Transport and Tourism decided to
eng	draw up an own-initiative report with
eng	the aim of setting out some general
eng	principles on how air agreements should
eng	be evaluated, covering both their
eng	substance and the procedures the
eng	Committee might adopt to ensure it is
eng	well informed throughout the course of
eng	negotiations, and has an opportunity to
eng	express its priorities well before
eng	being confronted with the yes/no choice
eng	Increasing the pace of research and
eng	innovation is crucial for introducing a
eng	fair and competitive economic model,
eng	ensuring jobs for the future, moving
eng	towards sustainable resource
eng	management, facing up to energy
eng	challenges and stimulating a
eng	knowledge-based society.
eng	Indeed, my colleague, Mr Mann, referred
eng	to the visit there: the previous
eng	speaker is obviously not listening to
eng	what is going on in this debate.
eng	Indian railways - to give you an
eng	example, 17 000 trains transport 18
eng	million passengers every day, and there
eng	are plans to build a further 25 000
eng	kilometres of track in the next 10
eng	years - are one of the many markets
eng	that could potentially be opened up
eng	with this free trade agreement.
eng	Instead of being viewed solely as a
eng	means of helping people to get better
eng	jobs, upskilling must give them the
eng	opportunity to shape the jobs of the
eng	future and, hence, contribute actively
eng	to an innovative economy.
eng	International cooperation aimed at
eng	promoting these countries'
eng	self-sufficiency and independence is
eng	the right path towards achieving social
eng	and political peace at international
eng	level, which will not only
eng	fundamentally affect the beneficiary
eng	populations, but will also lead to the
eng	resolution of Europe's immigration
eng	problems. I therefore support increased
eng	European funding for this cause, as
eng	well as the creation of a financial
eng	instrument focused exclusively on it.
eng	Is it possible to abandon penalties, or
eng	is the penalty system a restrictive
eng	system? Fifteen years ago, when I was
eng	still a student, I learnt about the
eng	convergence criteria, and their
eng	It also costs our farmers a lot of
eng	money and dangerously undermines
eng	consumer confidence in our agricultural
eng	products and agri-food industry, which
eng	are still undoubtedly the safest and
eng	most strictly controlled in the world.
eng	It brings together in one policy cycle
eng	the two arms of economic recovery:
eng	financial stability that is based on
eng	fiscal consolidation, reflected in
eng	stability and convergence programmes,
eng	and structural reforms for a smart,
eng	sustainable, socially-inclusive and
eng	job-creating growth.
eng	It does not affect my colleagues in
eng	Ireland or ourselves at all because
eng	even though we are in the IMF - and we
eng	are broke as a country - we are well
eng	above the European average in GDP
eng	terms; so whether there is an
eng	intermediate category or not does not
eng	It happens wherever people from
eng	different countries meet and bring
eng	together their various experiences: the
eng	examples of this in Europe are very
eng	numerous and it is good that we have so
eng	much to say about mobility.
eng	It has seen numerous conflicts since
eng	its independence from the United
eng	It is a guarantee of support for the
eng	least-developed regions and
eng	disadvantaged groups, leading to
eng	balanced social and territorial
eng	development in the Union, and a course
eng	of action that has great significance
eng	for the 27 Member States, which are
eng	required to lay down strategic
eng	territorial development guidelines
eng	through the increasingly active
eng	involvement of the social partners.
eng	It is about providing the transparency
eng	needed to know how Member States manage
eng	themselves, so that we may send them
eng	warning signals in time. I welcome the
eng	fact that the European Parliament
eng	followed this practice with close
eng	attention; in this European semester we
eng	encourage the Member States to maintain
eng	stricter budgetary management, and, at
eng	the same time, we lay down the basis
eng	for the practice of seeking growth in
eng	hard work and creativity.
eng	It is also important that in order to
eng	develop the linguistic competence of
eng	deaf children, they must first learn
eng	their mother tongue (sign language),
eng	which will allow them to become truly
eng	multilingual in the future.
eng	It is also, of course, partly because
eng	of the anticipated impact of the South
eng	Korean free trade agreement on Japanese
eng	exports, but I think that, in addition,
eng	it reflects recognition of Japan's
eng	limited experience with opening up.
eng	It is clear that dividing the
eng	competences of the committees creates
eng	some areas of overlap between which it
eng	is difficult to distinguish, so I
eng	believe that this clarification is a
eng	positive step and that the proposed new
eng	wording will enable greater consistency
eng	in using Rule 51 of the Rules of
eng	It is down to the EU to preserve its
eng	image by strengthening its commitment
eng	to ITER and demanding that its partners
eng	It is even more difficult when the
eng	debtor is domiciled in another Member
eng	It is important for Europe to make good
eng	use of its potential in the process of
eng	promoting itself in the world.
eng	It is important to establish a European
eng	Monetary Fund, managed under Union
eng	rules and financed in particular with
eng	the revenues from the fines, in order
eng	to safeguard financial stability of the
eng	It is inseparable from preventing
eng	forest fires, disasters which decimate
eng	extensive areas of forest annually in
eng	southern Europe, particularly in
eng	It is necessary to emphasise that GDP
eng	is a measure of production and does not
eng	reflect environmental sustainability,
eng	resource efficiency, social inclusion
eng	or social progress in general.
eng	It is not only important for children,
eng	for the very young children I have been
eng	talking about and the young people that
eng	my colleague has been talking about,
eng	but it is also important for the future
eng	of Europe. I therefore strongly support
eng	what the Commissioner has said, that
eng	Member States should now continue to
eng	invest in education and should not be
eng	using the economic climate to make
eng	cuts, because making cuts in education
eng	would be the worse possible thing to do.
eng	It is obvious that today in Europe,
eng	even the biggest Member States do not
eng	have the necessary influence or
eng	leverage to talk on an equal basis with
eng	the United States or China and other
eng	powers, but together, the European
eng	Union can make a difference.
eng	It is politically unacceptable and
eng	economically dangerous for these
eng	agencies, which have played such a
eng	negative role in the present crisis, to
eng	continue to have the right, granted by
eng	the EU itself, to rate not only
eng	companies, but also the economies of
eng	It is something well thought out and it
eng	is something that will lead to further
eng	legislation and proposals in the light
eng	of the European Council meeting in
eng	June, which will have as a theme - also
eng	planned for a long time - migration
eng	It is therefore based on mutual trust
eng	of the systems in force, whether in the
eng	EU or in Canada, and provides for
eng	obligations and methods of cooperation
eng	so that the importing authority can
eng	issue its own certificate on the
eng	aeronautical product, part or appliance
eng	without duplicating all the assessments
eng	done by the exporting authority.
eng	It is therefore obvious that President
eng	Assad and his whole family need to be
eng	included on the list - not tomorrow,
eng	not the day after tomorrow, but today.
eng	It is true that the review aims to
eng	improve SMEs' access to financing, but
eng	it fails to mention social and
eng	environmental issues and does not even
eng	refer to the European Commission's plan
eng	for a Social Business Initiative,
eng	announced for the end of this year.
eng	It is very important, however, that
eng	continuity of service is guaranteed, as
eng	a (temporary) limitation or degradation
eng	of GPS signals will have tremendous
eng	effects on our economy and society,
eng	without other independent GNSS systems
eng	It is worth pointing out that the
eng	definition of domestic workers in the
eng	draft ILO Convention is very wide.
eng	It must be based on the road map agreed
eng	by the local players and must be
eng	endorsed by the SADC, the African Union
eng	and the international community.
eng	It provides timely evidence of the
eng	progress in implementation throughout
eng	the EU-27 and promotes transparency of
eng	measures through integration with the
eng	Community's priorities.
eng	It should also be taken into account
eng	that non-recyclable nuclear waste must
eng	not be exported to third countries.
eng	It should introduce the financial tax
eng	and Eurobonds. I therefore voted for
eng	the Feio and Wortmann-Kool reports
eng	while I abstained on the Ferreira, Ford
eng	and Haglund reports and I voted for the
eng	Goulard report (for Eurobonds). A
eng	choice of votes that is intended to
eng	reflect my very mixed feelings over
eng	this package, which admittedly does
eng	offer some steps forward but which is
eng	still too poorly balanced: Europe will
eng	be unable to continue to develop
eng	without its people and therefore we
eng	must debate solutions for the future in
eng	It was also clear during the mission
eng	that we made to Bulgaria and Romania,
eng	and for this I would like to thank my
eng	fellow Romanian Members, Mr Marinescu,
eng	Mr Enciu and Mrs Weber, and my fellow
eng	Bulgarian Members, Mr Kovatchev and Mrs
eng	It will be a way for us to be able
eng	genuinely to exchange best practices. I
eng	believe that in the long term, this
eng	will constitute one firm basis for
eng	economic growth in Europe, but more
eng	important than economic growth is to
eng	remember that it is via this process
eng	that people, young people, can grow as
eng	individuals and Europeans.
eng	It would be appropriate that, in areas
eng	of exclusive competence, the EU should
eng	be the pre-eminent actor, with full
eng	membership, while the Member States
eng	might also - but not necessarily - be
eng	present as members, without, in most
eng	cases, an independent role.
eng	Its application must also guarantee
eng	environmental and social
eng	sustainability, and should not distort
eng	competition between Member States.
eng	Just one element of these costs is, of
eng	course, EU over-regulation.
eng	Ladies and gentlemen, the current
eng	trends pose a threat to the future of
eng	the EU and to the prosperity and
eng	well-being of Europeans.
eng	Last year, 2010, we reviewed the
eng	existing situation of volunteering,
eng	through bilateral meetings, surveys and
eng	a dedicated conference in September
eng	Lastly, for the future, we propose in
eng	this report to double the amount of
eng	research funding in order to create
eng	this European research area, with the
eng	help of the European Research Council.
eng	Legislation coming from Europe has a
eng	massive impact on the lives of those
eng	living within its borders and we must
eng	use every opportunity to ensure this
eng	legislation is as fair and balanced as
eng	Let me make it clear: a right-thinking
eng	Member State such as the Netherlands
eng	will never be able to agree with this
eng	report. MEPs with a fresh,
eng	freedom-loving vision should throw this
eng	report straight in the bin.
eng	Let us express our deepest respect for
eng	all of the victims of expulsions and
eng	deportations, but let us be united in
eng	committing ourselves to continuing
eng	European unification as the only real
eng	guarantee against a policy that brought
eng	so much misery to the people of Europe
eng	and beyond during the last century.
eng	Let us send a strong signal to the
eng	European Commission and Europe's
eng	agricultural producers, showing our
eng	support for a fairer, simpler and more
eng	Lithuania's goal of improving transport
eng	infrastructure and accessibility (23%
eng	of the entire allocation of Structural
eng	Fund money), enhancing its R&D capacity
eng	(22%), and supporting business
eng	creation, depends on cohesion policy.
eng	Madam President, Commissioner, ladies
eng	and gentlemen, we are going to give our
eng	verdict at first reading on the draft
eng	radio spectrum policy programme, and I
eng	should like to thank the Commission for
eng	having supported and transformed this
eng	proposal, which was first tabled during
eng	our debates on the telecoms package.
eng	Madam President, I would like to ask Mr
eng	Kirkhope this question because he
eng	agrees that the European Arrest Warrant
eng	needs review and re-evaluation - my
eng	view would be a lot stronger than that,
eng	Madam President, as I have already had
eng	the opportunity to state to both the
eng	Committee on the Environment, Public
eng	Health and Food Safety and the
eng	Committee on Agriculture and Rural
eng	Development, I cannot but express my
eng	disappointment at the failure of
eng	conciliation, notwithstanding our best
eng	efforts to find an agreement.
eng	Madam President, it is untenable to say
eng	that the constitution of a Member State
eng	is a matter only for itself.
eng	Madam President, the European Arrest
eng	Warrant has become one of the most
eng	successful instruments on mutual
eng	recognition adopted within the European
eng	Madam President, when the former
eng	Managing Director of the International
eng	Monetary Fund (IMF) came into office,
eng	there were major question marks against
eng	the relevance and effectiveness of the
eng	Many of the provisions of this
eng	constitution are very partisan, such as
eng	the omission of protection of gay
eng	people from discrimination and the
eng	giving of extra votes to mothers.
eng	Measures such as a European patent and
eng	the European professional identity card
eng	must be strengthened and applied widely
eng	in order to strengthen competitiveness
eng	Mention has already been made of the
eng	short timescale for the trade
eng	preference relaxation, reduced from
eng	three years to one year: Pakistan is
eng	prevented from maintaining or
eng	increasing duties or charges within
eng	More recent analysis conducted in 2010
eng	shows that the costs of meeting the 20%
eng	greenhouse gas reduction target have
eng	fallen by at least one third compared
eng	to the analysis made in 2008.
eng	Moreover, in order to support their
eng	business, I invite the European
eng	Commission to implement the principle
eng	of reciprocity and to think of new ways
eng	of improving access by European
eng	companies to public procurement outside
eng	the Union, in order to ensure equal
eng	conditions for European and foreign
eng	companies who are competing for the
eng	allocation of public contracts.
eng	Moreover, the results achieved will
eng	convince the whole of Europe that it
eng	has successfully enhanced the security
eng	of the entire Union.
eng	Most of these increases coincide with
eng	the areas with the highest level of
eng	Mr Garriga Polledo's report sets out to
eng	define the European Parliament's
eng	political priorities for the
eng	Multiannual Financial Framework for the
eng	period after 2013, both in terms of
eng	legislation and the budget.
eng	Mr President, Commissioner Barnier is
eng	currently in the United States meeting
eng	with his counterparts and he has asked
eng	me to convey to you the following
eng	statement in reply to Wolf Klinz's
eng	own-initiative report on rating
eng	agencies, which was adopted by the
eng	Committee on Economic and Monetary
eng	Mr President, Commissioner, no one
eng	could disagree with what you have said.
eng	I wish to relate the trouble suffered
eng	by a fellow Greek, who complained to me
eng	about a similar misadventure as the
eng	result of misleading advertising and
eng	gave me all the relevant documents.
eng	Mr President, I had the honour to be
eng	the rapporteur in this House when the
eng	European Arrest Warrant was approved in
eng	Mr President, I would also like to
eng	protest against the language being used
eng	here, against terms of abuse such as
eng	'populists', 'extremists' and the like,
eng	for people who simply want to protect
eng	the borders of their country.
eng	Mr President, Mrs McGuinness made an
eng	important point just now, namely that
eng	there is a moral and ethical dimension
eng	to this issue, given all the public
eng	health, biodiversity and economic
eng	concerns we have raised.
eng	Mr President, first allow me to thank
eng	the Committee on Budgetary Control, and
eng	in particular the rapporteur Mr
eng	Chatzimarkakis, for their excellent
eng	cooperation and the report he has drawn
eng	up, including the recommendation that
eng	the budget for 2009 should be
eng	discharged. I would also like to thank
eng	Mr Staes for his report on the
eng	implementation of the European
eng	Development Fund, and Mr Stavrakakis
eng	for his report on agencies.
eng	Mr President, in this case, too, the
eng	text is included in the voting list. I
eng	would just like to make one comment:
eng	the subject is the protest against the
eng	condemnation of demonstrators in
eng	Bahrain and criticism of that conduct.
eng	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,
eng	this report is a proper, reasonable
eng	offer by Parliament to the Commission
eng	and Council for the further development
eng	of the budgetary basis of the European
eng	Union in difficult times.
eng	Mr President, thank you for your kind
eng	words of solidarity.
eng	Mr President, the long-running military
eng	conflict between the government forces
eng	and the armed groups of the Liberation
eng	Tigers of Tamil Eelam, which has had
eng	very cruel consequences for the
eng	civilian population living in the
eng	conflict zones, came to an end in 2009.
eng	Mr President, this week's European
eng	Council has a very substantive agenda.
eng	Mr President, with regard to Camp
eng	Ashraf, we can do nothing less than
eng	join in the condemnation of the human
eng	rights violations that have taken place
eng	Mrs Harms and Mr Turmes, it is simply
eng	not acceptable to spend your time
eng	permanently complaining and heckling
eng	and then, when you are called on to do
eng	something, to vote against better
eng	safety levels for nuclear power plants.
eng	My colleague Mr Eickhout has
eng	highlighted the numerous benefits to
eng	the EU of having more ambitious
eng	targets, and moves within this
eng	parliament to reduce our ambitions will
eng	be rejected by Europe's citizens.
eng	My personal view is that it is
eng	important, in this context, for us to
eng	convey a clear message to the European
eng	Union's other trade partners.
eng	My vote in favour is based on the
eng	wisdom of this report, which not only
eng	embraces the innovations of the Treaty
eng	of Lisbon in matters of foreign policy
eng	and security, but also calls for
eng	greater coordination between the
eng	recently created European External
eng	Action Service, the Member States and
eng	Nevertheless, I urge the Executive
eng	Director of the Agency to fully fulfil
eng	his obligation to include, in his
eng	report to the discharge authority
eng	summarising the Internal Audit Service
eng	(IAS) Report, all recommendations made
eng	(including the ones which could be
eng	possibly refused by the Agency) and all
eng	action taken on these recommendations;
eng	I call therefore on the Executive
eng	Director of the Agency to provide
eng	information on the content of the IAS's
eng	four 'very important' recommendations
eng	and the action taken by the Agency.
eng	Nevertheless, we must make every effort
eng	to ensure that these policies promote
eng	the values and interests of the EU at
eng	international level, with the general
eng	aim of contributing to peace, to
eng	security, to solidarity, to conflict
eng	prevention, to the promotion of
eng	democracy, to the protection of human
eng	rights, to gender equality, to respect
eng	for international law, to support for
eng	international institutions, to
eng	effective multilateralism and mutual
eng	respect between nations, to sustainable
eng	development, to free and fair trade,
eng	and to the eradication of poverty.
eng	No, this is a proposal that the
eng	European Commission has made with
eng	respect to the massive flooding in
eng	Pakistan, time-bound for two years,
eng	with the possibility of its being
eng	continued for another year.
eng	Not all MEPs are back in the Chamber
eng	after the fire drill.
eng	Now is perhaps the time, he said, for
eng	Plan B - something, I hasten to add,
eng	that the Committee on International
eng	Trade has been looking for for a long
eng	Now, in these turbulent times, a new
eng	competent Managing Director must
eng	therefore be appointed for an important
eng	global institution such as this and the
eng	process must be open.
eng	Of course I can understand that the
eng	increase in fuel prices could worsen
eng	the problem, but the main reason for
eng	the problem has always been overfishing
eng	- the fishing over the set limits which
eng	cannot leave stocks in a healthy state.
eng	Of course, there is a group of
eng	countries who are fiercely against it.
eng	This was also very visible here during
eng	the debate. I must just remind you that
eng	on 15 October, the Council agreed on
eng	the political compromise.
eng	On 14 April 2011, the Commission
eng	adopted a proposal for a decision on
eng	the mobilisation of the European
eng	Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) in
eng	favour of Belgium, with a view to
eng	supporting the reintegration into the
eng	labour market of workers made redundant
eng	as a result of the global financial and
eng	On both sides, here it is not a matter
eng	of supplying arms, but rather of
eng	peaceful mediation between the two
eng	On the contrary, until the spring
eng	events, Azerbaijan was making
eng	relatively good progress and was not
eng	listed by Human Rights Watch among such
eng	poorly-viewed states as China, Iraq,
eng	Israel, Russia, Saudi Arabia or
eng	On the other hand, I am convinced that
eng	the cooperation and verification
eng	mechanism - the famous CVM on which the
eng	Commission will release a report in
eng	July, dealing with the exact same
eng	issues that were voiced in this debate
eng	- could be helpful, even if officially,
eng	it is not part of the conditions for
eng	On the other hand, unilateral violation
eng	of the agreement must be prevented at
eng	all costs, since this threatens the
eng	construction of a European area without
eng	borders, which started in 1985.
eng	On top of this, they have an essential
eng	role in combating climate change due to
eng	their capacity to absorb carbon dioxide
eng	One final question: tax evasion.
eng	One of the most controversial issues in
eng	this debate is whether or not to
eng	authorise the export of nuclear waste
eng	to countries outside the EU. I clearly
eng	supported the option of prohibiting
eng	exports to third countries, contrary to
eng	initial proposals. I also supported the
eng	proposal not to allow exports of waste
eng	other than for recycling, on the
eng	express condition that they should
eng	subsequently be imported back into the
eng	EU. This position was supported by a
eng	majority and I am glad of this.
eng	One was the speech by a Member from the
eng	United Kingdom of the Group of the
eng	Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for
eng	Europe whose party is part of the
eng	coalition government in the UK. This
eng	party was opposed to nuclear power
eng	before the elections and supported it
eng	afterwards and this is the person who
eng	is criticising my thoroughness when it
eng	comes to the stress tests. I can only
eng	say that this speech would have been
eng	more appropriate at the party
eng	conference in London than it was here
eng	Operators often seek to benefit from
eng	inadequate inspections in order to get
eng	round the ban and smuggle the waste
eng	through other Member States where the
eng	inspections are less rigorous, as you
eng	Our cities are a central aspect of our
eng	key European objectives, although we
eng	must not ignore rural areas. I will
eng	never get tired of saying that if we
eng	are to improve energy efficiency we
eng	must begin in the cities.
eng	Our primary objective must be to ensure
eng	high-quality and sustainable food
eng	production in Europe and for our rural
eng	areas to be active and vital.
eng	Overarching frequency planning and
eng	management at European level is,
eng	without doubt, less appropriate for
eng	achieving this goal, as the Commission
eng	itself also stresses that this can be
eng	carried out well and efficiently in the
eng	individual Member States. A
eng	coordinating role would certainly be
eng	Parliament has just given the
eng	Commission the green light to continue
eng	talks with the WTO but has insisted on
eng	restricting their duration and scope.
eng	Parliament was the first European
eng	institution to broach the subject of
eng	the increasing number of lobbies at
eng	European level, having launched the
eng	register for representatives of
eng	interest groups in 1996.
eng	Parties should cooperate to establish
eng	an information-sharing mechanism,
eng	preferably coordinated by the Food and
eng	Agriculture Organisation (FAO), in
eng	conjunction with other relevant
eng	multilateral and intergovernmental
eng	initiatives, and to facilitate the
eng	exchange of information with existing
eng	databases relevant to the agreement.
eng	Perhaps, the Commissioner could explain
eng	once again when the Office will
eng	actually be up and running.
eng	Poor economic statistics could be one
eng	of the reasons for the crisis.
eng	Preventive actions are crucial in this
eng	respect, as they allow for situations
eng	to be prevented without ex post actions
eng	having to be taken. I agree with the
eng	report when it supports the
eng	Commission's approach and extends the
eng	use of reversed qualified majority
eng	voting to block a Commission decision
eng	Public acceptance and understanding are
eng	nowadays an integral part of EU policy
eng	and form the basis for the EU's
eng	Rather, it is proof of the complex
eng	situation in Egypt. I therefore believe
eng	that close monitoring by the European
eng	Parliament - especially through
eng	Commissioner Ashton's statement - is
eng	absolutely necessary.
eng	Regarding the Southern Neighbourhood:
eng	the European Council is expected to
eng	endorse the new approach to relations
eng	with the EU neighbours which was agreed
eng	at Monday's Foreign Affairs Council.
eng	Reinforced economic governance in
eng	Europe is simply too important to fail
eng	on this final remaining issue.
eng	Respect for International Labour
eng	Organisation standards, the principles
eng	laid down in the European Social
eng	Charter and social dialogue are just
eng	some of the areas that can be discussed
eng	on these occasions. I believe that the
eng	report we have adopted offers sound
eng	backing for these objectives.
eng	Russia is one of Europe's most
eng	important economic partners, not to
eng	mention a neighbouring country on
eng	which, inter alia, European energy
eng	Second: the European Union will impress
eng	upon Russia that more progress needs to
eng	be made on agreeing substantial trade
eng	and investment provisions, including on
eng	energy, in the new EU-Russia Agreement
eng	in order to provide a solid legal basis
eng	for deepened economic cooperation in
eng	Secondly, in the light of the call in
eng	the report for steps to remove barriers
eng	to mobility, I would highlight the fact
eng	that a Council recommendation designed
eng	to encourage Member States to do
eng	precisely this is due to be adopted by
eng	the Council in the coming days.
eng	Secondly, the role of the Commission,
eng	as highlighted by the Commissioner, is
eng	praiseworthy; and, thirdly, the point
eng	made by Paul Rübig that a new
eng	regulator should oversee the stress
eng	tests and any future power plants that
eng	are built would be very sensible.
eng	Serving the harmonious development of
eng	the EU is one of the objectives of
eng	cohesion policy, which is an
eng	indispensable instrument for
eng	reinforcing the economic, social and
eng	territorial reality of Europe, as well
eng	as an essential factor for the
eng	realisation of smart and inclusive
eng	growth as anticipated in the Europe
eng	2020 strategy. I support this report as
eng	I feel that territorial cohesion should
eng	be adequately supported through the
eng	allocation of greater structural funds,
eng	and it is therefore right that the
eng	share allocated to Objective 3 be
eng	increased from the current 2.5% to 7%,
eng	considering in addition that around
eng	37.5% of the European population lives
eng	Should we not draw lessons from what is
eng	happening in what are called the Arab
eng	countries and not demand of our Eastern
eng	partners what we did not demand of some
eng	governments, notably those of Tunisia,
eng	Libya or Egypt? Should we not, Mr
eng	Andor, see to it that democracy can
eng	finally rule in those countries, that
eng	we have minimum requirements in the
eng	Since consultations on the horizontal
eng	proposal concerning the country of
eng	origin in trade policy have not ended
eng	yet, it did not seem appropriate for us
eng	to create a precedent that would
eng	jeopardize the proposal and prejudice
eng	the outcome of that debate.
eng	Since these practices are carried on
eng	across frontiers, it is very difficult
eng	to bring those responsible to justice.
eng	So I would like to thank everybody for
eng	this useful debate once again, it is
eng	good that now we have a schedule
eng	concerning the future as well, and it
eng	is very important for us that, as
eng	several Members have indicated, we can
eng	combat counterfeiting as efficiently as
eng	possible and that the European consumer
eng	can trust the traceability of textile
eng	So this is a first data point for
eng	evaluation, provided that we agree that
eng	the target of the programmes is to
eng	overcome the budgetary and economic
eng	crisis and not to create a culture of
eng	punishment leading to euro-scepticism
eng	So, integrating training and education,
eng	infrastructure around housing
eng	programmes, opportunities for small
eng	businesses to grow, working with UN
eng	women - as I am - to consider how we
eng	build safer communities around the
eng	housing projects, how we work together
eng	to design a much bigger, grander vision
eng	that is built upon what the Egyptian
eng	people want. I am talking to the
eng	Foreign Minister of Egypt, Al-Araby,
eng	who is committed to working closely
eng	with us on the Middle East Peace
eng	Process, keen to develop the strength
eng	of the relationship that we already
eng	have, and keen to see us as partners in
eng	collaborating in the region.
eng	Some members of the currency union are
eng	paying for the irresponsibility or
eng	adventurism of others, and a move
eng	towards greater transparency and
eng	clearer budgetary rules leading to the
eng	avoidance of long-term problems in our
eng	countries has therefore become
eng	South Sudan must be enabled to
eng	establish itself as a viable sovereign
eng	Stigmatisation and incitement to hatred
eng	on the grounds of religious
eng	affiliations are considered offences in
eng	France and this situation is equivalent
eng	to flagrante delicto.
eng	Such action should include brokering an
eng	agreement between Rajoelina and
eng	Ravalomanana, allowing the former
eng	president to return to Madagascar
eng	without any risk or prejudice.
eng	Surely we are not going to allow the
eng	will of two Heads of State to
eng	jeopardise one of Europe's greatest
eng	Temporary emergency measures are needed
eng	that will enable European fishers to
eng	overcome their difficult economic
eng	situation, but the Commission should
eng	also draw up a medium- and long-term
eng	plan aimed at improving fuel efficiency
eng	in the fisheries sector, including
eng	Thanks to these and strict adherence to
eng	the rules established by the new
eng	Stability and Growth Pact, I am sure
eng	that the EU will gain in strength and
eng	will be able to face new challenges
eng	without assistance policies and, worse
eng	still, outdated slogans that lead
eng	nowhere and do only damage, especially
eng	among the weakest members of society.
eng	That is also why we need a genuinely
eng	and effectively functioning mechanism
eng	to identify and correct macroeconomic
eng	imbalances, in order to prevent the
eng	kind of crises we have seen, for
eng	instance in Ireland or the credit boom
eng	we have seen in Spain.
eng	That is the core of the problem, and
eng	now we are living out the consequences
eng	and we are at a turning point.
eng	That is why I agree with the rapporteur
eng	that it is time to act now and to see
eng	what positive action we can take.
eng	That is why it is so important to
eng	promote freedom of movement for workers
eng	That is why we in the Group of the
eng	Greens want the EU2020 objectives to be
eng	fully binding in the Stability and
eng	Growth Pact and in the reports, and
eng	also the deficit and debt objectives.
eng	That really is my huge topic right now,
eng	so I urge the Commissioner to please
eng	keep on track and focus also on the
eng	future, to create something like a
eng	statute for internships which
eng	establishes rules against exploitation
eng	That, of course, includes access to
eng	social security, health and safety
eng	protection and maternity protection, as
eng	well as provisions on working and rest
eng	The Action Plan on Global Navigation
eng	Satellite System (GNSS) Applications
eng	outlines the steps that are essential
eng	to the GNSS passing a turning point and
eng	guaranteeing project success.
eng	The CETA will also cover regulatory
eng	barriers such as sanitary and
eng	phytosanitary measures, customs
eng	procedures and competition rules.
eng	The Commission for Petitions regrets
eng	the fact that Directive 2006/114/EC on
eng	misleading and comparative advertising,
eng	which is applicable to
eng	business-to-business transactions,
eng	seems either to fall short of providing
eng	effective counter-measures or to be
eng	insufficiently implemented by Member
eng	The Commission is analysing the results
eng	of the public consultation and then it
eng	will prepare a detailed impact
eng	assessment to see what should be the
eng	next step that, in times of crisis,
eng	will be good for giving a boost to the
eng	Internal Market and creating growth and
eng	jobs in the Internal Market by
eng	expanding the markets, mostly for SMEs,
eng	and giving consumers the possibility of
eng	better choice and better deals.
eng	The Commission must therefore put
eng	pressure on the Member States to
eng	persuade them to assume responsibility
eng	for the funds that the EU allows them
eng	The Commission therefore very much
eng	appreciates Parliament's approach,
eng	focusing on the long-term benefit of
eng	investing in early years learning.
eng	The Commission's stand is marked by
eng	confusion, cover-up and panic and, as a
eng	result, we are mourning lives, we are
eng	mourning cases of illness and we are
eng	mourning the consequences to
eng	agricultural production.
eng	The Confederal Group of the European
eng	United Left - Nordic Green Left agrees
eng	with the general parts of the
eng	resolution, but has serious doubts over
eng	the points specifically mentioned, and
eng	therefore will not support the
eng	The Council should also participate in
eng	the common register, which should be
eng	made mandatory and serve as a dynamic
eng	instrument in guaranteeing the
eng	transparency of the decision-making
eng	The Digital Agenda and the digital
eng	economy represent one of the most
eng	important objectives of the EU 2020
eng	strategy, aimed at closing the digital
eng	gap, and increasing the productivity,
eng	cohesion and competitiveness of
eng	European industry, and ensuring better
eng	access to the single market for the
eng	EU's consumers and companies.
eng	The EU cannot forget its role in every
eng	respect as a leading actor on the world
eng	The EU is an ageing society, and
eng	therefore the influx of migrants should
eng	not be regarded only as a threat to
eng	European labour markets.
eng	The EU should support the initiatives
eng	of young and talented people to promote
eng	particular political strategies. A good
eng	example of such activity is the website
eng	Eastbook.eu, whose founders supply
eng	thousands of Internet users every day
eng	with information about events in the
eng	countries of the Eastern Partnership
eng	and the progress of the programme.
eng	The Europe 2020 strategy has been
eng	agreed, its priorities are clear and
eng	its objectives are measurable.
eng	The European Commission worked around
eng	the clock to be able to issue a
eng	positive report on 10 June. I can
eng	assure you that both the Croatians and
eng	the Hungarian Presidency have been
eng	working day and night to make this
eng	The European Parliament and the Council
eng	invite the Commission, when drawing up
eng	the report pursuant to Article 24a of
eng	the regulation, to consider their
eng	impact on possible new labelling
eng	requirements including with a view to
eng	improving the traceability of textile
eng	products'. That is all and now the
eng	Minister will nod I hope.
eng	The European SME Week in October will
eng	be a good opportunity to work together
eng	to raise awareness of SME policy and
eng	the needs of SMEs everywhere in the
eng	The European Union must have greater
eng	political strength and not just
eng	The European Union, through its funding
eng	for research and innovation, and
eng	through its support to agriculture but
eng	also to regional development,
eng	contributes in a very tangible manner
eng	to boosting the European economies.
eng	The Fund must concentrate its efforts
eng	on creating employment, promoting
eng	lifelong learning, helping in
eng	particular low-skilled workers, those
eng	outside the labour market, along with
eng	the most vulnerable groups, those who
eng	suffer discrimination and, of course,
eng	The ILO plays an essential role on the
eng	international scene by drawing up,
eng	promoting and translating these
eng	standards into reality.
eng	The Member States are currently
eng	implementing tough national budgetary
eng	consolidation policies, and these
eng	policies have to find an important
eng	balance between the need to tackle the
eng	crisis and the need to relaunch the
eng	economy and investment.
eng	The Parliament was the first European
eng	institution to address the phenomenon
eng	of an increasing number of interest
eng	groups at European level and,
eng	especially, the consequences of this
eng	evolution for the legislative process.
eng	The Schengen acquis is, therefore, a
eng	fundamental instrument for the legal
eng	economy, and I am convinced that on 24
eng	June this year, the Council will take
eng	important points for reflection from
eng	what is intended to be a strengthening
eng	of trust and collaboration between
eng	The Structural Funds are one of the
eng	main tools for implementing the
eng	economic and social policy of the Union.
eng	The UN's Darusman report, which is the
eng	immediate pretext for this debate,
eng	states clearly that in those final
eng	stages, the LTTE used the civilian
eng	population as human shields,
eng	intensified the forcible recruitment of
eng	civilians, including children, into its
eng	ranks, executed civilians who attempted
eng	to escape the conflict zone and
eng	deployed artillery in proximity to
eng	displaced civilians and civilian
eng	installations such as hospitals.
eng	The abolition of internal border
eng	control is particularly important for
eng	the entire European Union and each
eng	Member State individually.
eng	The adverse scenario proposed by the
eng	banking authority, the EBA, envisages a
eng	significant shock in the form of price
eng	fluctuations of sovereign debt and the
eng	cost of its financing.
eng	The aim is to lay down rules regulating
eng	the content, presentation, examination
eng	and monitoring of stability programmes
eng	and convergence programmes, as part of
eng	the multilateral surveillance to be
eng	carried out by the Commission and the
eng	Council at an early stage.
eng	The alignment of study programmes and
eng	corresponding mutual recognition must
eng	be achieved in all areas of training
eng	and education, in particular, in manual
eng	trades, where there is a lot of ground
eng	The arrangement of higher duties during
eng	peak hours, compensated for during
eng	off-peak hours, is now much better
eng	elaborated than in the Council position.
eng	The basis for this is the mutual
eng	recognition of qualifications and
eng	courses of education and training. I
eng	abstained from the vote on this report
eng	as it fails to propose any tangible
eng	solutions to the issue of how mutual
eng	recognition is to take place where, of
eng	course, in many fields, there are
eng	qualitatively highly differing methods
eng	of education and training.
eng	The changes made to the common
eng	agricultural policy will therefore not
eng	be merely qualitative - improving the
eng	targeting of our objectives - they will
eng	also aim to distribute payments among
eng	the Member States - both within the
eng	Member States themselves and among the
eng	various categories of farms - precisely
eng	in order to make better use of the
eng	available resources in terms of the
eng	objectives that have been set.
eng	The common register will be a step
eng	forward towards greater transparency in
eng	the European institutions, which
eng	hopefully will help give the European
eng	project greater legitimacy in the eyes
eng	The conservation of forest heritage
eng	represents an important contribution to
eng	the welfare of populations, as well as
eng	contributing to job creation in rural
eng	The credit cards of the main local
eng	organiser of the civil society event -
eng	which is, by the way, the first ever
eng	linked to an EU-Russia Summit - have
eng	been blocked (for technical reasons, of
eng	course), and her car licence plates
eng	have mysteriously disappeared.
eng	The current economic, financial and
eng	social crisis has demonstrated that the
eng	European Union's current economic
eng	governance model has not worked: the
eng	surveillance framework has shown itself
eng	to be very weak and the rules of the
eng	Stability and Growth Pact have not been
eng	respected. I therefore support the
eng	package of measures that the European
eng	Commission has tabled on economic
eng	governance. I am voting for the Ford
eng	report on requirements for budgetary
eng	frameworks of the Member States. I
eng	welcome the fact that the regulation
eng	will be applicable to all EU Member
eng	States. I would stress the need for
eng	means of independent oversight to be
eng	established. I welcome the possibility
eng	that governments that have just come to
eng	power might have the right to update
eng	their budgetary framework in the medium
eng	term to reflect new political
eng	The debate has, above all, been a high
eng	quality one and it has focused on the
eng	following: we want to strengthen and
eng	maintain our current mobility
eng	programmes which are part of the
eng	lifelong learning and Youth on the Move
eng	The detention camp in Guantánamo Bay
eng	is a reflection of this tragic
eng	The directory companies play on that
eng	The economic and financial crisis has
eng	exposed and reinforced the need for
eng	coordination and improved surveillance
eng	of economic policies within the
eng	economic and monetary union.
eng	The emerging powers and the emerging
eng	economies of this world are not waiting
eng	for Europe to split into its
eng	constituent parts, from large parts
eng	like Germany down to very small parts
eng	like Malta, in the belief that each
eng	individual part will be able to survive
eng	on its own - the renationalisation
eng	rhetoric that many politicians are
eng	giving their people.
eng	The examples in North Africa make us
eng	realise now that the EU's need for
eng	military preparedness and capability at
eng	the gates of Europe remains a fact.
eng	The fact is that even now the lobby
eng	register only covers 2 800 of the 20
eng	000 lobbyists in Brussels.
eng	The failure to conclude this dossier
eng	came despite a number of positive steps
eng	achieved on the issue of cloning during
eng	the last months and hours of
eng	The financial year 2010 showed clearly
eng	how sensitive and important the
eng	publication of results is in terms of
eng	The first thing I want to say is that
eng	some Members of this House need to show
eng	a little humility and a little common
eng	sense, because they make it appear that
eng	they are the only ones that have ever
eng	thought about nuclear safety and the
eng	only ones who are worried about the
eng	future of their children and humanity.
eng	The fundamental aspect of European
eng	culture is that it is not intended to
eng	be promoted in external relations in a
eng	simplified way, but as something
eng	vibrant and alive thanks to its
eng	particular features.
eng	The government of Sri Lanka and the
eng	Commission have set up the LLRC to
eng	investigate human rights allegations.
eng	The impact assessment instrument
eng	presented by the rapporteur is a good
eng	way of improving the quality of law
eng	making at European level.
eng	The information is intended to provide
eng	a basis for analysing the demand for
eng	drugs, ways of reducing it, and the
eng	drug market in general.
eng	The intransigence, in the past, of
eng	those who handled the European
eng	Constitution prevented us from
eng	institutionalising European referenda.
eng	The key factor to achieving this goal
eng	is for developed countries to want to
eng	open their markets to developing
eng	countries, which also includes India.
eng	The legal protection offered by the
eng	bilateral investment treaties (BITs) is
eng	important in ensuring that businesses
eng	are encouraged to take the step of
eng	investing abroad, which can cost many
eng	The main objective of the Agreement is
eng	to minimise the duplication of
eng	assessments, tests and controls, unless
eng	these reflect significant regulatory
eng	differences, and to enable both the EU
eng	and Canada to rely on each other's
eng	certification systems.
eng	The measures put to the vote today seek
eng	to strengthen the instruments that are
eng	not working, and therefore it is
eng	essential that they are put into
eng	The most effective way we can promote
eng	development is to enable people to help
eng	themselves. I therefore welcome the
eng	abolition of customs barriers - no
eng	matter how temporary - and I am
eng	confident that this transitional period
eng	will allow us to evaluate the process
eng	proposed by the Commission.
eng	The natural disaster suffered by the
eng	people of Pakistan last August touched
eng	all of us and deserves the solidarity
eng	of the European Union.
eng	The new Hungarian constitution is an
eng	important instrument for clearing away
eng	the ruins left by eight years of
eng	corrupt and inept Socialist governance.
eng	The new regulation on macroeconomic
eng	surveillance should deal with these two
eng	The next item is the report by Mr Dess,
eng	on behalf of the Committee on
eng	Agriculture and Rural Development, on
eng	the CAP towards 2020: meeting the food,
eng	natural resources and territorial
eng	challenges of the future.
eng	The objectives set in the Digital
eng	Agenda in the form of broadband cover
eng	for all European citizens by 2013, and
eng	high-speed cover of 30 Mbps or more (up
eng	to 100 Mbps for half of European
eng	households) by 2020, must be regarded
eng	as the minimum, and the ambition should
eng	be for Europe to have the best capacity
eng	and the highest broadband connection
eng	speeds in the world.
eng	The opportunities offered by public
eng	funding, particularly the Structural
eng	Funds, are not fully exploited.
eng	The payments should include as few
eng	exemptions as possible, and should
eng	apply to the so-called external costs
eng	of road transport, including noise and,
eng	above all, emissions. I am frankly
eng	curious as to how the individual states
eng	will justify their unwillingness to
eng	introduce payments, at least under
eng	Table 1, which is a very watered-down
eng	version of what genuine
eng	environmentalists want.
eng	The positives are that transaction
eng	costs are low, that partner countries
eng	have an increased responsibility for
eng	themselves and that there is a better
eng	dialogue between partners and donors.
eng	The principal goal of the 'Youth on the
eng	Move' initiative is to promote youth
eng	mobility and to break down barriers
eng	that are still standing in its way.
eng	The process must be evidence-based,
eng	impact-assessed and with full
eng	parliamentary involvement, and on that
eng	basis, as I have said, the time for
eng	talking is over and we need to move
eng	The proposal is based on the Euratom
eng	Treaty and, in particular, on the
eng	guidelines provided in the report
eng	'Assessing Euratom - 50 years of
eng	European nuclear energy policy'. The
eng	rapporteur identifies four main
eng	priorities among the amendments tabled
eng	in the draft report for consideration
eng	by the members of the committee.
eng	The proposed strengthening of the
eng	European Defence Agency would not mean
eng	a genuine increase in the level of
eng	security in the EU, but merely the
eng	creation of another bureaucratic
eng	monster, incapable of performing the
eng	tasks assigned to it. Who would take
eng	the decision to mobilise European armed
eng	forces? Whose interests would their
eng	units be acting in? How much of a say
eng	would the new Member States have? Would
eng	the EDA's headquarters be relocated?
eng	Fears have also been voiced regarding
eng	institutional matters, such as whether
eng	growth of the EDA would not result in a
eng	reduction in the size of certain Member
eng	States' armies, and whether there would
eng	be a clash with the remit and
eng	objectives of the European External
eng	The qualities that these frequencies
eng	possess in terms of coverage and
eng	penetration of buildings are
eng	universally recognised: they are called
eng	The rapporteur introduces the key idea
eng	of creating a union between all
eng	Europeans for innovation.
eng	The reality is that this proposal will
eng	have a disproportionate impact upon the
eng	peripheral Member States in the
eng	European Union, such as Ireland, as
eng	centrally located Member States have
eng	the option of switching to rail.
eng	The refugee problem cannot be
eng	automatically resolved by returning to
eng	a regime of border controls.
eng	The report also fails to mention the
eng	withdrawal of sovereign debt from the
eng	agencies' ratings, which is the main
eng	measure that could be taken in this
eng	area to combat speculation against the
eng	The report calls for the strengthening
eng	of basic employment standards, which
eng	are enshrined in the conventions of the
eng	International Labour Organisation,
eng	including freedom of association and
eng	collective bargaining, the elimination
eng	of forced and compulsory labour, the
eng	elimination of discrimination in the
eng	workplace and the abolition of child
eng	The report is divided into five parts:
eng	security and foreign policy, security
eng	and defence, external and internal
eng	security, security through operations
eng	and security in partnership.
eng	The report sets out various priorities,
eng	some of which are important and others
eng	less so, but in any case, they are all
eng	The request to increase the post-2013
eng	EU budget by 5%, and therefore to
eng	increase the total European Union GNI
eng	from 1.06% to 1.11%, corresponds to a
eng	desire to honour commitments made to
eng	support growth and development, first
eng	and foremost, the Europe 2020 strategy,
eng	for which adequate resources are needed.
eng	The restoration of the rule of law in
eng	Madagascar is an absolute priority and
eng	requires the organisation of free,
eng	transparent and democratic elections
eng	supported by international aid and,
eng	first and foremost, the European Union.
eng	The rights of the emerging economies
eng	mean that it is in the fundamental
eng	interest of the European Union, its
eng	citizens and its Member States for us
eng	to be more united and thus more
eng	effective in advancing our causes and
eng	our interests on the global scene.
eng	The scrapping of this symbolic euro on
eng	the altar of national self-interests
eng	and budgetary austerity illustrates
eng	Europe's moral and political failure.
eng	The severely exploitative and
eng	discriminatory conditions under which
eng	many of those engaged in domestic work
eng	operate are well known.
eng	The sovereign debt crisis will not be
eng	solved until the bank crisis is solved
eng	- and the bank crisis will not be
eng	solved until markets are confident in
eng	providing capital and liquidity to
eng	The substantive difference lies in the
eng	fact that this report makes no
eng	reference to the origin marking to be
eng	included on textile product labels.
eng	The terms values and interests must be
eng	compatible, not exclusive in our
eng	The time has also come for the EU to
eng	use effective and creative measures to
eng	implement the aims set out in the
eng	Europe 2020 strategy, such as reducing
eng	the school drop-out rate to under 10%
eng	and ensuring that 40% of young people
eng	are educated to university level.
eng	The two principles that define Europe
eng	are solidarity - we stand by this - and
eng	a sense of individual responsibility -
eng	that the Greek people and all those who
eng	receive acts of solidarity also take
eng	responsibility themselves.
eng	The volume of toxic waste is
eng	continuously increasing in the EU.
eng	Because of the high cost of recycling
eng	and disposing of waste, there is an
eng	enormous temptation to ship this waste
eng	to countries with less stringent
eng	environmental controls and lower
eng	disposal costs. I am pleased to find
eng	that this problem is accepted by all
eng	sides of the House and hope that
eng	Parliament will take a concerted
eng	approach to this issue.
eng	Their conservation represents an
eng	important contribution to the welfare
eng	of populations, as well as contributing
eng	to job creation in rural areas.
eng	There are also other aspects that I
eng	want to highlight here, which concern
eng	There are other ways of showing
eng	solidarity: more effective forms of
eng	aid, aimed at re-establishing the
eng	affected areas and improving the living
eng	conditions of the affected people;
eng	based on a policy of effective and
eng	lasting development cooperation and
eng	aid, which supports the integrated and
eng	sustainable development of local
eng	There could be a major event where
eng	Member States, under very clear
eng	circumstances, need to do this.
eng	There is a large and growing resident
eng	population of foreign hauliers using
eng	foreign vehicles and paying only their
eng	own countries' modest vehicle charges
eng	who are taking more and more domestic
eng	There is also a need for enhanced
eng	market access, including the
eng	modernisation of the standardisation
eng	system within the EU, and for better
eng	access for small and medium-sized
eng	enterprises to public procurement
eng	There is no doubt that the scale of the
eng	economic meltdown in Greece, coupled
eng	with the risk of a similar crisis
eng	hitting many other Member States,
eng	urgently requires a strategy to prevent
eng	such a disaster from happening again.
eng	There is precious little time and there
eng	is a heavy responsibility on the
eng	European Commission, and certainly more
eng	now on the Member States, who are
eng	weakening and backing off from what
eng	they promised initially after what
eng	There needs to be a rapid and adequate
eng	exchange of information through the
eng	Schengen Information System (SIS), good
eng	police cooperation and effective
eng	controls in place at the external
eng	There will thus be more opportunity to
eng	adapt interventions according to the
eng	demands of each Member State.
eng	Therefore, I do not quite understand
eng	the Commissioner's criticism of some of
eng	the compromises that are being tabled
eng	again here, as we refer to the Treaty
eng	and you are the ones who interpret how
eng	it is to be applied.
eng	Therefore, as a Parliament, we need to
eng	be clear on what our priorities are and
eng	be prepared to fight for them.
eng	Therefore, our resolution calls
eng	urgently on all EU institutions and on
eng	the Member States to do everything
eng	possible to prevent Mr al-Nashiri from
eng	Therefore, there would only be limited
eng	political support from Member States
eng	for a proposal that could lead to an
eng	increase in public expenditure.
eng	Therefore, with proper use of the
eng	arrest warrant, proportionality, strict
eng	application of the instrument, better
eng	exchange of information and training on
eng	European issues for magistrates, we are
eng	sure that uniform application of this
eng	important instrument can be achieved in
eng	These are the latest steps in this
eng	process of interference and extortion,
eng	which is openly colonial in complexion.
eng	These deportations were chiefly
eng	designed to deprive Estonia, Latvia and
eng	Lithuania of their social and political
eng	These issues are the subject of other
eng	evaluations, such as the European
eng	Commission's Cooperation and
eng	Verification Mechanism. I want to
eng	welcome also the suggestions made by
eng	Commissioner Malmström yesterday
eng	regarding a new package of
eng	anti-corruption measures.
eng	These provisions of the partnership
eng	thereby make it possible to operate in
eng	conjunction with local authorities,
eng	creating important jobs; they also
eng	permit Europe to be present in
eng	otherwise prohibited areas, thereby
eng	facilitating the development of
eng	practices of 'good fishing' and making
eng	it possible to monitor the presence and
eng	quantity of the fish stocks concerned.
eng	These two proposals to amend directives
eng	are crucial to the survival of European
eng	manufacturing companies.
eng	They are not ready now, and they never
eng	They have demonstrated that they are
eng	ready to join, that they have made the
eng	necessary progress, and hopefully there
eng	will very soon be a possibility to
eng	achieve a way forward and a decision by
eng	They only asked for one thing.
eng	They will then be fleshed out in 2012.
eng	I want to urge the Commission to really
eng	give this a high priority and not allow
eng	it to depend on the Member States,
eng	which are too slow to put the right
eng	Thirdly, the programmes in both Greece
eng	and Ireland are still in the relatively
eng	This Eurovignette is only a tiny step
eng	forward towards that goal.
eng	This also affects our assistants, and
eng	it has come to my attention that our
eng	assistants are much more indignant than
eng	even the Members. I would therefore ask
eng	the assistants, who work very hard in
eng	Parliament, also to understand the need
eng	This can only be achieved if not only
eng	the tariff barriers but also the
eng	non-tariff and technical barriers to
eng	This creates legal uncertainty for the
eng	victims, as they often do not know what
eng	the legal status is of such contracts
eng	This draft Council decision on the
eng	conclusion of the Agreement between the
eng	European Union and the Republic of
eng	Croatia on the participation of the
eng	Republic of Croatia in the work of the
eng	European Monitoring Centre for Drugs
eng	and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) is
eng	important as Croatia is one of the main
eng	entry points for drugs in Europe.
eng	This grants the Commission discharge in
eng	respect of the implementation of the
eng	budget of the Eighth, Ninth and Tenth
eng	European Development Funds for the
eng	financial year 2009.
eng	This hell-hole must be shut down
eng	immediately with all of the current
eng	detainees having access to fair trial
eng	before a civilian court, all of the
eng	secret CIA torture prisons in Europe
eng	must be shut down, the use of Shannon
eng	airport in Ireland for military and
eng	rendition flights by the CIA must be
eng	ended, and the barbaric death penalty
eng	must be brought to an end.
eng	This is a balanced approach, as the
eng	opinion recognises the progress made by
eng	these two countries in terms of the
eng	criteria which must be satisfied for
eng	integration into the Schengen area
eng	(control of land, sea and air borders,
eng	visas, police cooperation, readiness in
eng	terms of connecting to and using the
eng	Schengen Information System and data
eng	protection), but also requires regular
eng	progress reports on certain issues
eng	which are considered to be outstanding.
eng	This is a problem of recognisability,
eng	of traceability and of inadequate
eng	controls at EU level.
eng	This is also reinforced, however, by an
eng	attempt to legitimise the system of
eng	sanctions, with an attempt to include a
eng	system of incentives.
eng	This is because, in my opinion, the EU
eng	should refrain from imposing social
eng	prerogatives on third countries,
eng	however correct or beneficial they may
eng	deem them to be. Whilst I accept the
eng	importance of fostering humane methods
eng	of treating a workforce, social policy
eng	in the EU has already wreaked havoc on
eng	a number of UK institutions and should
eng	not be extended. A degree of
eng	flexibility and freedom is needed when
eng	dealing with social policy, as
eng	one-size-fits-all policy making can be
eng	counterproductive when applied at
eng	This is my 12th discharge exercise. I
eng	believe this must be the first time
eng	that we have worked together in such a
eng	constructive spirit; not only
eng	Commissioner Šemeta, but also
eng	individual commissioners in charge of
eng	their own remits have really invested
eng	time on this discharge.
eng	This is part of the campaign consisting
eng	of promotion material showing a foetus
eng	with the words 'Let me live', with the
eng	Commission's logo. I made it very
eng	clear: this campaign is not in line
eng	with the Progress programme and it is
eng	not in line with the project proposal
eng	submitted to the Commission services by
eng	the Hungarian authorities.
eng	This is the case at the moment in
eng	Romania, even in the region I come
eng	from, with regard to the radioactive
eng	landfill from the Kozloduy power
eng	This is to defend the immunity of Mr de
eng	Magistris, as in giving the interview
eng	in question Mr de Magistris was acting
eng	in performance of his duties as an MEP
eng	and carrying out political activities
eng	by expressing his opinion on a matter
eng	of public interest to his constituents.
eng	This is why I supported Mrs Niebler's
eng	report on the necessary changes to
eng	impact assessments, particularly
eng	regarding the introduction of an
eng	independent mechanism.
eng	This is why we also need to look at the
eng	European budget as part of one system:
eng	both for economic governance and for
eng	managing the single currency.
eng	This kind of action is totally
eng	This means that, in many situations,
eng	GDP can increase while the majority of
eng	a country's citizens become poorer,
eng	because GDP does not take into
eng	consideration the level of inequality
eng	This new directive, which comprises the
eng	fusion of four already existing
eng	directives, aims to give new impetus to
eng	completing the internal market by
eng	removing legal obstacles to
eng	This point was made several times just
eng	This proposal was tabled by the
eng	Commission at the express request of
eng	the European Council in the immediate
eng	aftermath of the floods that hit
eng	Pakistan in the summer of last year and
eng	brought widespread devastation to the
eng	country and to its people.
eng	This report advocates the creation of a
eng	single strategic framework for the
eng	European Regional Development Fund
eng	(ERDF) and the other Structural Funds,
eng	particularly the European Agricultural
eng	Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and
eng	the European Fisheries Fund (EFF), for
eng	the next financing period after 2013,
eng	along with its coordination with other
eng	instruments of the external aspects of
eng	This report contains several proposals
eng	to achieve this: the proposal to
eng	designate a person in every EU
eng	representation in third countries, for
eng	example, to coordinate cultural
eng	relations and interaction between the
eng	EU and those countries, or the proposal
eng	that the draft European External Action
eng	Service (EEAS) organisational chart
eng	contain posts tailored to cultural
eng	aspects and that a coordination unit be
eng	set up. Moreover, it seems opportune
eng	that third countries be involved to a
eng	greater extent in EU programmes devoted
eng	to culture as much as mobility, youth,
eng	education and training: the
eng	accessibility to these programmes on
eng	the part of young nationals of those
eng	countries must be facilitated.
eng	This report is on the cultural
eng	dimensions of the EU's external
eng	actions. I agree with the rapporteur in
eng	that we need a common strategy for the
eng	This report relates to the proposal for
eng	a directive of Parliament and of the
eng	Council on indications or marks
eng	identifying the lot to which a
eng	foodstuff belongs, in a codified text.
eng	This report, drafted by our fellow
eng	Member, Mr Coelho, concerns the draft
eng	Council decision on the full
eng	application of the provisions of the
eng	Schengen acquis in the Republic of
eng	Bulgaria and Romania.
eng	This revision is also a first step
eng	towards the reintroduction of fair
eng	competition between European road
eng	hauliers, since some Member States,
eng	such as France and Germany, already
eng	apply the 'polluter pays' principle and
eng	want the EU to extend it to all the
eng	This sort of reform and change to the
eng	selection process would correspond to
eng	the reform of the IMF, which would also
eng	correspond to the changes in global
eng	economic relations and would give the
eng	developing countries a chance to bring
eng	their experience with the IMF to bear
eng	in the further development of the IMF.
eng	This vote is the fruit of two years of
eng	discussions with consumer and
eng	professional associations, and it is,
eng	in particular, a major victory for the
eng	European Parliament which remained
eng	united around this issue.
eng	This will be made possible in
eng	particular by expanding online
eng	administration and the one-stop shop in
eng	line with the recommendations made in
eng	This will provide consumers with more
eng	comprehensive and truthful information
eng	than under current legislation on
eng	origin marking and avoid them being
eng	This, coupled with the 25th anniversary
eng	of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster,
eng	which struck Ukraine on 26 April 1986,
eng	is a reminder to European leaders of
eng	their responsibility regarding nuclear
eng	Three exercises co-financed with funds
eng	from our financial instrument for civil
eng	protection had a radiological
eng	component, namely TORCH, which dealt
eng	with an accident resulting in mass
eng	fatalities and its simulation, CREMEX,
eng	which involved a mass contamination in
eng	the form of a dirty bomb, and
eng	SISMICAEX, implemented one year ago,
eng	which dealt with a nuclear accident
eng	caused by an earthquake.
eng	Throughout the world, and in poor
eng	countries in particular, domestic
eng	services are among the lowest paid jobs.
eng	To Mr Verhofstadt, I have to say this.
eng	To begin with, I consider it essential
eng	that this new instrument continue to
eng	prioritise achieving the Millennium
eng	Development Goals (MDGs). In order to
eng	achieve this aim - specifically, the
eng	eradication of poverty - it is
eng	essential that any future instrument be
eng	provided with realistic and adequate
eng	financial resources.
eng	To get to the heart of the matter, the
eng	energy mix remains a matter for the
eng	national governments and parliaments.
eng	To that end, the EU must make the
eng	necessary resources available to both
eng	countries to support social services
eng	such as education, health, agriculture,
eng	food security and institutional
eng	capacity building, and it should
eng	maintain this humanitarian aid for both
eng	countries after 9 July, the date on
eng	which South Sudan will officially gain
eng	Today in the European Parliament, we
eng	voted on the Coelho report on the
eng	application of the provisions of the
eng	Schengen acquis in Bulgaria and Romania.
eng	Today, Parliament adopted the amended
eng	text of the Consumer Rights Directive
eng	of my fellow Member, Mr Schwab. I
eng	welcome the adoption of this directive
eng	which will contribute to strengthening
eng	the platform of common consumer
eng	protection regulations, in particular
eng	with reference to the sale of goods
eng	online. I also welcome the fact that
eng	the legislator has allowed the Member
eng	States to include provisions that are
eng	more favourable to consumers in their
eng	respective national legal systems.
eng	Together with the Federation of Food
eng	Banks, Secours populaire, the Red Cross
eng	and Restos du Coeur in France, I am
eng	concerned about the future of this
eng	programme after the European Court of
eng	Justice called into question its
eng	funding within the framework of the CAP.
eng	Transport applications of the Global
eng	Navigation Satellite Systems (
eng	Ukraine is not alone in this respect,
eng	but it must demonstrate its
eng	unconditional determination to
eng	introduce more comprehensive and more
eng	inclusive reforms if it wants to move
eng	closer to the EU. We will continue to
eng	provide Ukraine with significant
eng	support in its efforts to bring about
eng	Unfortunately I have to point out a few
eng	difficulties reported by the Court of
eng	Auditors following the audits carried
eng	out during the implementation of the
eng	2009 work programme. I therefore add my
eng	voice to the calls for the Authority to
eng	take the necessary measures to remedy
eng	these shortcomings which, in any case,
eng	have not nullified the general
eng	regularity and reliability of the
eng	budget for the financial year 2009.
eng	Unfortunately, that is what the
eng	original proposal was like. I am
eng	pleased that we were able to rectify
eng	Unlike you, we have always extended the
eng	hand of friendship to you, and we have
eng	always wanted decent coexistence, and
eng	we would therefore like the
eng	implementing regulations for your
eng	constitution to respect the sovereignty
eng	of neighbouring states in the region.
eng	Vocational education and training make
eng	it possible to move around freely
eng	within the labour market, according to
eng	the changing economic situation and the
eng	demands of a particular economic sector.
eng	We agree, furthermore, that all the
eng	parties should engage in continued and
eng	constructive dialogue to address
eng	post-referendum issues, including
eng	common borders, citizenship
eng	arrangements for citizens both north
eng	and south, and the sharing of oil
eng	We also call for more money, to clear
eng	our conscience, but there is a lot of
eng	Arab money which is not invested in
eng	Arab democracy and Arab prosperity.
eng	We also note the considerable progress
eng	that the Internet represents for our
eng	societies, even if it brings new
eng	challenges such as guaranteeing access
eng	for all and the economic model of the
eng	We are also already planning the third
eng	batch, so the work is ongoing and will
eng	We are calling for more resources to
eng	improve the infrastructure in our
eng	border regions and to strengthen the
eng	Trans-European Networks.
eng	We are grateful to the Council for
eng	reintroducing visa sanctions and an
eng	asset freeze on the high Belarusian
eng	officials, which demonstrated that our
eng	deep concern for the people of Belarus
eng	is not only empty rhetoric.
eng	We are now faced with the annual report
eng	on the common foreign and security
eng	policy (CFSP), this time relating to
eng	We are strongly against the EU-India
eng	Free Trade Agreement because, even
eng	though that country is making progress
eng	in worker protection and health and in
eng	the fight against counterfeiting, we
eng	have to bear in mind that it is still
eng	an unfair competitor towards our
eng	We are, of course, open to more
eng	efficient use and better
eng	implementation. I agree that mistakes,
eng	arrests of innocent people, etc.,
eng	We believe that the wording of the
eng	report which makes cohesion policy
eng	subject to conditions that force the
eng	Member States to implement reforms is
eng	unclear and liable to misinterpretation.
eng	We can note a marked improvement in the
eng	situation of SMEs, but progress still
eng	needs to be made. SMEs continue to come
eng	up against considerable problems in
eng	expanding their activities, and
eng	sometimes even in surviving.
eng	We cannot fail to express our concern
eng	about some of the principles guiding
eng	the European Research Area.
eng	We could speak of cultural management
eng	or about giving a new impetus to the
eng	one-time idea of Melina Mercouri for a
eng	European Capital of Culture.
eng	We do not understand why measures that
eng	are immediately relevant to exceptional
eng	situations have to be rejected.
eng	We have EUR 28.5 billion left to
eng	programme in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
eng	We have another resolution full of
eng	contradictions before us. On the one
eng	hand, the appointment of the new Small
eng	and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SME)
eng	Envoy by the Commission is to be
eng	welcomed, and his mandate to monitor
eng	the progress of the Member States in
eng	the implementation of the Small
eng	Business Act (SBA) and to promote SMEs'
eng	interests throughout the Commission,
eng	ensuring, in particular, that the
eng	'Think Small First' principle is being
eng	applied effectively, is to be supported.
eng	We have got to look at how we spend the
eng	We have problems in many countries
eng	regarding the legal forms according to
eng	which the work is developing.
eng	We have these epochal events - this
eng	economic crisis on our border, this
eng	collapse in our share of world GDP -
eng	and here we are talking about early
eng	years learning, about our
eng	responsibilities to the International
eng	Labour Organisation, and about whether
eng	Sarajevo should be a European city of
eng	We heard on the one hand from the
eng	Council that, if a European Arrest
eng	Warrant is executed properly and
eng	effectively and not in the many trivial
eng	cases we have seen, its advantages
eng	outweigh those disadvantages.
eng	We know that not everything is as it
eng	should be with regard to Schengen.
eng	We must also help our manufacturers
eng	when it comes to medicines, but I think
eng	that we will all agree that this must
eng	not be to the detriment of those who
eng	are dependent on access to cheap
eng	We must encourage the Member States to
eng	adopt its guidelines so as to help SMEs
eng	at this time of crisis.
eng	We must make every effort to improve
eng	efficiency and transparency and we must
eng	link this with an abandonment of
eng	unnecessary bureaucracy.
eng	We must reinstate the requirement that
eng	a court will extradite a person only
eng	when there is compelling evidence that
eng	a serious offence under the extraditing
eng	country's laws has been committed.
eng	We need a European leadership to stand
eng	up against simplistic solutions - and I
eng	have heard some of them here today -
eng	We need research if we are to create
eng	jobs, and we need research, of course,
eng	to maintain employment in the EU and to
eng	remain competitive against the emerging
eng	We need to find a solution which
eng	satisfies our expectations but also
eng	takes into account the specific
eng	We need to realise that if we were to
eng	assume that cohesion policy is a policy
eng	only for the poorest, then it should
eng	slowly come to an end, which means it
eng	should slowly disappear completely from
eng	the list of European policies.
eng	We now have a package before us. We
eng	have achieved a great deal.
eng	We rely on the European Commission to
eng	achieve that and the European
eng	Parliament will be behind the
eng	Commission in strengthening Schengen,
eng	but if there are two lessons that we
eng	have learnt in respect of what happened
eng	in recent weeks they are these.
eng	We should give serious consideration to
eng	the benefits of thorough, regular
eng	inspections coordinated at EU level,
eng	especially in the case of shipments to
eng	developing countries.
eng	We should therefore reject this
eng	We therefore have to make that choice
eng	in our external policy budget for the
eng	coming years. I await with curiosity
eng	the Commission's answer to a number of
eng	comments made by Mr Bart Staes in his
eng	We trust that the European Parliament's
eng	message will act as a guide and that
eng	unanimity will be achieved in the
eng	Council so that a final decision can be
eng	We want to put those proposals back on
eng	We will examine this matter in depth in
eng	order to provide clear rules, prevent
eng	misleading information and facilitate
eng	responsible choices by consumers when
eng	purchasing textile products.
eng	We would have preferred to lighten the
eng	penalties, but we had to agree to them
eng	as part of the compromises.
eng	Well, I suppose in some ways, you may
eng	well need Mrs Lagarde because not only
eng	is Greece going bust, not only are we
eng	heading for the fourth bail-out, but as
eng	I have warned before in this Assembly,
eng	the validity of the European Central
eng	Bank itself will very shortly be called
eng	into question. I have warned that you
eng	cannot go on buying your own bad debt,
eng	but we have reached the point where,
eng	within weeks, we may well see that the
eng	ECB itself is not solvent, so perhaps
eng	your friend Mrs Lagarde can help bail
eng	What do we want to achieve? Innovation
eng	is not just a question of one building,
eng	one ministry, one programme.
eng	What is more, better cooperation and
eng	coordination on development policy
eng	between Member States could save us EUR
eng	What message do you have to send to
eng	these people who are seeking, in a
eng	dignified and peaceful manner,
eng	prospects and a better future for
eng	themselves, their families and their
eng	What we instead need is a debate on
eng	measures to enhance Frontex so as to
eng	provide maximum security at the
eng	external borders of the European Union
eng	- thereby ensuring freedom of movement
eng	- and a debate on speedy asylum
eng	proceedings and managed migration, on
eng	cooperation to deal with the causes of
eng	migration and on readmission agreements.
eng	When dealing with nuclear energy,
eng	safety and the transparency of
eng	procedures are two important issues
eng	which need to be constantly attended
eng	to. The answer is not necessarily to
eng	shut down plants, as Germany is
eng	planning to do, but rather to ensure
eng	that we are following the strictest
eng	safety programmes when it comes to
eng	dealing with this form of energy and
eng	the waste it produces.
eng	When properly shaped in the budget,
eng	they could create room for much better
eng	and visibly better financing of what
eng	was under-financed - i.e. innovation,
eng	the management of migration flows, the
eng	external responsibilities of the
eng	European Union that are now so visible
eng	in the Mediterranean area, energy
eng	efficiency and, above all, how to
eng	connect Europe via the trans-European
eng	networks and the other cross-border
eng	connectors in energy systems.
eng	When we started these free trade
eng	negotiations, there was a very positive
eng	attitude from everyone involved. I
eng	therefore believe it is important for
eng	us to ensure that we finish in exactly
eng	the same spirit and that we do not
eng	allow the negotiations to drag on for
eng	While I am in favour of more
eng	coordination, efficiency and the
eng	linking up of policies to avoid
eng	regulatory gaps, I believe that the EU
eng	must not lose its diverse set of voices
eng	in international institutions.
eng	While respect must be shown for the
eng	reversibility principle, concepts and
eng	technical solutions for final disposal
eng	should be envisaged in order to enable
eng	potential access to and recovery of
eng	waste for technical reasons or if
eng	progress in research allows the
eng	emergence of new technological
eng	solutions such as transmutation. I
eng	agree with the proposal's aim of
eng	ensuring that adequate financial
eng	resources are set aside to meet the
eng	requirements of nuclear plant
eng	decommissioning, and that the waste is
eng	managed in a transparent manner.
eng	While you in the Commission paid heed
eng	to irresponsible statements issued by
eng	regional authorities in Germany -
eng	statements that were totally
eng	misinformed and quite irresponsible -
eng	mentioning Spanish farms by their names
eng	and addresses, the population remained
eng	exposed, without knowing it, to the
eng	Why is that? It is because we have
eng	found that if we do not have an
eng	adequate automatic decision-making
eng	system in the Council, the necessary
eng	decisions do not get taken.
eng	With a view to overcoming the economic
eng	and financial crisis, public
eng	procurement appears to be a catalyst
eng	for the revitalisation of the European
eng	economy, and of enterprise, employment
eng	and consumer welfare in Europe.
eng	With regard to surveillance missions, I
eng	have serious reservations concerning
eng	the proposal for such missions, since
eng	they will be composed mainly of
eng	European Commission officials and will
eng	have significant powers entrusted to
eng	them, without the members of these
eng	missions having any political mandate.
eng	With the 2010 strategic report,
eng	Parliament has the first occasion for
eng	analysis and evaluation of the outputs
eng	and results of cohesion policy
eng	With this question and the resolution
eng	that will follow, I call on the Member
eng	States to help fishing professionals,
eng	where necessary, to continue their work
eng	without distorting competition.
eng	Within the framework of the G20, and
eng	perhaps going further in some areas
eng	than the G20 had requested, we are
eng	today patiently recreating the
eng	governance, regulatory, transparency, I
eng	was going to say quite simply 'moral' -
eng	if I can use that word - or ethical
eng	frameworks and tools that have been
eng	singularly lacking in the financial
eng	market set-up for around 15 years.
eng	Work on the revision of EU rules on
eng	veterinary medicinal products and
eng	medicated feeding stuffs is ongoing.
eng	Yesterday, Commissioner Olli Rehn
eng	announced a number of important steps
eng	Yet, while no one is using road traffic
eng	accidents to campaign to ban the motor
eng	car, a small army of leftists is using
eng	Chernobyl to push for an end to nuclear
eng	You have achieved the opportunity for
eng	detailed discussion of country-specific
eng	situations at every key decision-making
eng	stage of the policy cycle, including
eng	confirmation of Parliament's right to
eng	initiate dialogue with individual
eng	You should be putting your emphasis on
eng	persuading the courts to invoke Article
eng	21 of the 2003 Extradition Act. I was
eng	there in the House of Lords and I
eng	helped move that amendment.
eng	Youth unemployment caused by the
eng	economic crisis is a considerable
eng	challenge across the EU, and so far,
eng	neither the EU nor the Member States
eng	have handled it properly.
eng	on behalf of the ALDE Group.
eng	third: I am pleased to see your
eng	determination with regard to Camp
eng	Ashraf; our voice in opposition to
eng	violence against civilians must be
eng	clear and decisive there and everywhere
eng	The earth was formless and empty.
eng	Darkness was on the surface of the deep
eng	and God’s Spirit was hovering over
eng	the surface of the waters.
eng	On the seventh day God finished his
eng	work which he had done; and he rested
eng	on the seventh day from all his work
eng	They heard the LORD God’s voice
eng	walking in the garden in the cool of
eng	the day, and the man and his wife hid
eng	themselves from the presence of the
eng	LORD God amongst the trees of the
eng	for out of it you were taken.
eng	Lamech said to his wives,
eng	All the days of Enoch were three
eng	hundred and sixty-five years.
eng	Thus Noah did. He did all that God
eng	and he sent out a raven. It went back
eng	and forth, until the waters were dried
eng	The rainbow will be in the cloud. I
eng	will look at it, that I may remember
eng	the everlasting covenant between God
eng	and every living creature of all flesh
eng	that is on the earth.”
eng	and Resen between Nineveh and the great
eng	Shem lived five hundred years after he
eng	became the father of Arpachshad, and
eng	became the father of more sons and
eng	Abram travelled, still going on towards
eng	they made war with Bera, king of Sodom,
eng	and with Birsha, king of Gomorrah,
eng	Shinab, king of Admah, and Shemeber,
eng	king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela
eng	He said, “Lord GOD, how will I know
eng	that I will inherit it?”
eng	When Abram was ninety-nine years old,
eng	the LORD appeared to Abram and said to
eng	him, “I am God Almighty. Walk before
eng	me, and be blameless.
eng	I will get a morsel of bread so you can
eng	refresh your heart. After that you may
eng	go your way, now that you have come to
eng	He said, “Oh don’t let the Lord be
eng	angry, and I will speak. What if there
eng	are thirty found there?”
eng	The sun had risen on the earth when Lot
eng	To Sarah he said, “Behold, I have
eng	given your brother a thousand pieces of
eng	silver. Behold, it is for you a
eng	covering of the eyes to all that are
eng	with you. In front of all you are
eng	Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the
eng	flock by themselves.
eng	Uz his firstborn, Buz his brother,
eng	Kemuel the father of Aram,
eng	If the woman isn’t willing to follow
eng	you, then you shall be clear from this
eng	oath to me. Only you shall not bring my
eng	but you shall go to my father’s
eng	house, and to my relatives, and take a
eng	The servant told Isaac all the things
eng	After that, his brother came out, and
eng	his hand had hold on Esau’s heel. He
eng	was named Jacob. Isaac was sixty years
eng	old when she bore them.
eng	They dug another well, and they argued
eng	over that, also. He called its name
eng	She put the skins of the young goats on
eng	his hands, and on the smooth of his
eng	Isaac trembled violently, and said,
eng	“Who, then, is he who has taken
eng	venison, and brought it me, and I have
eng	eaten of all before you came, and have
eng	blessed him? Yes, he will be blessed.”
eng	Jacob said to Laban, “Give me my
eng	wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I
eng	Jacob came from the field in the
eng	evening, and Leah went out to meet him,
eng	and said, “You must come in to me;
eng	for I have surely hired you with my
eng	Jacob saw the expression on Laban’s
eng	face, and, behold, it was not towards
eng	Anyone you find your gods with shall
eng	not live. Before our relatives, discern
eng	what is yours with me, and take it.”
eng	For Jacob didn’t know that Rachel had
eng	and he said, “If Esau comes to the
eng	one company, and strikes it, then the
eng	company which is left will escape.”
eng	Esau ran to meet him, embraced him,
eng	fell on his neck, kissed him, and they
eng	Ask me a great amount for a dowry, and
eng	I will give whatever you ask of me, but
eng	give me the young lady as a wife.”
eng	The land which I gave to Abraham and
eng	Isaac, I will give it to you, and to
eng	your offspring  after you will I give
eng	These are the sons of Reuel: Nahath,
eng	Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were
eng	the sons of Basemath, Esau’s wife.
eng	Jacob lived in the land of his
eng	father’s travels, in the land of
eng	They took Joseph’s coat, and killed a
eng	male goat, and dipped the coat in the
eng	They said, “There has been no
eng	and as I lifted up my voice and cried,
eng	he left his garment by me, and ran
eng	Behold, there came up out of the river
eng	seven cattle, sleek and fat, and they
eng	fed in the marsh grass.
eng	“Now therefore let Pharaoh look for a
eng	discreet and wise man, and set him over
eng	Joseph saw his brothers, and he
eng	recognised them, but acted like a
eng	stranger to them, and spoke roughly
eng	with them. He said to them, “Where
eng	Jacob, their father, said to them,
eng	“You have bereaved me of my children!
eng	Joseph is no more, Simeon is no more,
eng	and you want to take Benjamin away. All
eng	these things are against me.”
eng	He lifted up his eyes, and saw
eng	Benjamin, his brother, his mother’s
eng	son, and said, “Is this your youngest
eng	brother, of whom you spoke to me?” He
eng	said, “God be gracious to you, my
eng	We said, ‘We can’t go down. If our
eng	youngest brother is with us, then we
eng	will go down: for we may not see the
eng	man’s face, unless our youngest
eng	brother is with us.’
eng	The sons of Israel did so. Joseph gave
eng	them wagons, according to the
eng	commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them
eng	provision for the way.
eng	The son of Dan: Hushim.
eng	Why should we die before your eyes,
eng	both we and our land? Buy us and our
eng	land for bread, and we and our land
eng	will be servants to Pharaoh. Give us
eng	seed, that we may live, and not die,
eng	and that the land won’t be
eng	When Joseph saw that his father laid
eng	his right hand on the head of Ephraim,
eng	it displeased him. He held up his
eng	father’s hand, to remove it from
eng	Ephraim’s head to Manasseh’s head.
eng	Who will rouse him up?
eng	“Naphtali is a doe set free,
eng	Forty days were fulfilled for him, for
eng	that is how many the days it takes to
eng	embalm. The Egyptians wept for him for
eng	Now there arose a new king over Egypt,
eng	who didn’t know Joseph.
eng	Moses was afraid, and said, “Surely
eng	this thing is known.”
eng	They will listen to your voice, and you
eng	shall come, you and the elders of
eng	Israel, to the king of Egypt, and you
eng	shall tell him, ‘The LORD, the God of
eng	the Hebrews, has met with us. Now
eng	please let us go three days’ journey
eng	into the wilderness, that we may
eng	sacrifice to the LORD, our God.’
eng	You shall tell Pharaoh, ‘the LORD
eng	says, Israel is my son, my firstborn,
eng	and they said to them, “May the LORD
eng	look at you, and judge, because you
eng	have made us a stench to be abhorred in
eng	the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of
eng	his servants, to put a sword in their
eng	the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, “I
eng	am the LORD. Speak to Pharaoh king of
eng	Egypt all that I speak to you.”
eng	The LORD said to Moses, “Tell Aaron,
eng	‘Stretch out your hand with your rod
eng	over the rivers, over the streams, and
eng	over the pools, and cause frogs to come
eng	up on the land of Egypt.’”
eng	behold, the LORD’s hand is on your
eng	livestock which are in the field, on
eng	the horses, on the donkeys, on the
eng	camels, on the herds, and on the flocks
eng	with a very grievous pestilence.
eng	When Pharaoh saw that the rain and the
eng	hail and the thunders had ceased, he
eng	sinned yet more, and hardened his
eng	heart, he and his servants.
eng	The LORD said to Moses, “Yet one
eng	plague more will I bring on Pharaoh,
eng	and on Egypt; afterwards he will let
eng	you go. When he lets you go, he will
eng	surely thrust you out altogether.
eng	You shall take a bunch of hyssop, and
eng	dip it in the blood that is in the
eng	basin, and strike the lintel and the
eng	two door posts with the blood that is
eng	in the basin; and none of you shall go
eng	out of the door of his house until the
eng	The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
eng	When Pharaoh came near, the children of
eng	Israel lifted up their eyes, and
eng	behold, the Egyptians were marching
eng	after them; and they were very afraid.
eng	The children of Israel cried out to the
eng	He has cast Pharaoh’s chariots and
eng	his army into the sea.
eng	By the greatness of your arm they are
eng	as still as a stone—
eng	When the dew that lay had gone, behold,
eng	on the surface of the wilderness was a
eng	small round thing, small as the frost
eng	and Meribah,  because the children of
eng	Israel quarrelled, and because they
eng	tested the LORD, saying, “Is the LORD
eng	amongst us, or not?”
eng	Moreover you shall provide out of all
eng	the people able men which fear God: men
eng	of truth, hating unjust gain; and place
eng	such over them, to be rulers of
eng	thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers
eng	of fifties, and rulers of tens.
eng	The LORD said to him, “Go down! You
eng	shall bring Aaron up with you, but
eng	don’t let the priests and the people
eng	break through to come up to the LORD,
eng	lest he break out against them.”
eng	If his master gives him a wife and she
eng	bears him sons or daughters, the wife
eng	and her children shall be her
eng	master’s, and he shall go out by
eng	“If one man’s bull injures
eng	another’s, so that it dies, then they
eng	shall sell the live bull, and divide
eng	its price; and they shall also divide
eng	“You shall give the firstborn of your
eng	I will send the hornet before you,
eng	which will drive out the Hivite, the
eng	Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before
eng	onyx stones, and stones to be set for
eng	the ephod and for the breastplate.
eng	Its snuffers and its snuff dishes shall
eng	You shall overlay the boards with gold,
eng	and make their rings of gold for places
eng	for the bars: and you shall overlay the
eng	You shall make holy garments for Aaron
eng	your brother, for glory and for beauty.
eng	It shall have a hole for the head in
eng	the middle of it. It shall have a
eng	binding of woven work around its hole,
eng	as it were the hole of a coat of mail,
eng	that it not be torn.
eng	Then you shall kill the ram, and take
eng	some of its blood, and put it on the
eng	tip of the right ear of Aaron, and on
eng	the tip of the right ear of his sons,
eng	and on the thumb of their right hand,
eng	and on the big toe of their right foot,
eng	and sprinkle the blood around on the
eng	You shall make the poles of acacia
eng	wood, and overlay them with gold.
eng	and you shall beat some of it very
eng	small, and put some of it before the
eng	testimony in the Tent of Meeting, where
eng	I will meet with you. It shall be to
eng	Moses begged the LORD his God, and
eng	said, “The LORD, why does your wrath
eng	burn hot against your people, that you
eng	have brought out of the land of Egypt
eng	with great power and with a mighty hand?
eng	Now Moses used to take the tent and to
eng	pitch it outside the camp, far away
eng	from the camp, and he called it “The
eng	Tent of Meeting.” Everyone who sought
eng	the LORD went out to the Tent of
eng	Meeting, which was outside the camp.
eng	“Don’t make a covenant with the
eng	inhabitants of the land, lest they play
eng	the prostitute after their gods, and
eng	sacrifice to their gods, and one call
eng	you and you eat of his sacrifice;
eng	“‘Let every wise-hearted man
eng	amongst you come, and make all that the
eng	Moses gave commandment, and they caused
eng	it to be proclaimed throughout the
eng	camp, saying, “Let neither man nor
eng	woman make anything else for the
eng	offering for the sanctuary.” So the
eng	people were restrained from bringing.
eng	He made a screen for the door of the
eng	tent, of blue, purple, scarlet, and
eng	fine twined linen, the work of an
eng	He made the altar of burnt offering of
eng	acacia wood. It was square. Its length
eng	was five cubits,  its width was five
eng	cubits, and its height was three cubits.
eng	Of the blue, purple, and scarlet, they
eng	made finely worked garments, for
eng	ministering in the holy place, and made
eng	the holy garments for Aaron; as the
eng	LORD commanded Moses.
eng	They tied to it a lace of blue, to
eng	fasten it on the turban above, as the
eng	LORD commanded Moses.
eng	He spread the covering over the tent,
eng	and put the roof of the tabernacle
eng	above on it, as the LORD commanded
eng	He shall cut it into its pieces, with
eng	its head and its fat. The priest shall
eng	lay them in order on the wood that is
eng	on the fire which is on the altar,
eng	and the two kidneys, and the fat that
eng	is on them, which is by the loins, and
eng	the cover on the liver, with the
eng	kidneys, he shall take away.
eng	He shall lay his hand on the head of
eng	the goat, and kill it in the place
eng	where they kill the burnt offering
eng	before the LORD. It is a sin offering.
eng	The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
eng	In the place where they kill the burnt
eng	offering, he shall kill the trespass
eng	offering; and its blood he shall
eng	sprinkle around on the altar.
eng	He amongst the sons of Aaron who offers
eng	the blood of the peace offerings, and
eng	the fat, shall have the right thigh for
eng	and out of the basket of unleavened
eng	bread, that was before the LORD, he
eng	took one unleavened cake, and one cake
eng	of oiled bread, and one wafer, and
eng	placed them on the fat, and on the
eng	and the breasts and the right thigh
eng	Aaron waved for a wave offering before
eng	the LORD, as Moses commanded.
eng	The cony,  because he chews the cud but
eng	doesn’t have a parted hoof, he is
eng	Nevertheless a spring or a cistern in
eng	which water is gathered shall be clean:
eng	but that which touches their carcass
eng	it is a chronic leprosy in the skin of
eng	his body, and the priest shall
eng	pronounce him unclean. He shall not
eng	isolate him, for he is already unclean.
eng	But if there is in the bald head, or
eng	the bald forehead, a reddish-white
eng	plague; it is leprosy breaking out in
eng	his bald head, or his bald forehead.
eng	The priest shall take some of the blood
eng	of the trespass offering, and the
eng	priest shall put it on the tip of the
eng	right ear of him who is to be cleansed,
eng	and on the thumb of his right hand, and
eng	on the big toe of his right foot.
eng	He shall break down the house, its
eng	stones, and its timber, and all the
eng	house’s mortar. He shall carry them
eng	out of the city into an unclean place.
eng	If a man lies with a woman and there is
eng	an emission of semen, they shall both
eng	bathe themselves in water, and be
eng	unclean until the evening.
eng	He shall make atonement for the Holy
eng	Place, because of the uncleanness of
eng	the children of Israel, and because of
eng	their transgressions, even all their
eng	sins; and so he shall do for the Tent
eng	of Meeting, that dwells with them in
eng	the middle of their uncleanness.
eng	Therefore I have said to the children
eng	of Israel, “No person amongst you may
eng	eat blood, nor may any stranger who
eng	lives as a foreigner amongst you eat
eng	(for the men of the land that were
eng	before you had done all these
eng	abominations, and the land became
eng	He shall bring his trespass offering to
eng	the LORD, to the door of the Tent of
eng	Meeting, even a ram for a trespass
eng	“‘If a man lies with an animal, he
eng	shall surely be put to death; and you
eng	shall kill the animal.
eng	or hunchbacked, or a dwarf, or one who
eng	has a defect in his eye, or an itching
eng	disease, or scabs, or who has damaged
eng	“When a bull, or a sheep, or a goat,
eng	is born, then it shall remain seven
eng	days with its mother; and from the
eng	eighth day and thenceforth it shall be
eng	accepted for the offering of an
eng	offering made by fire to the LORD.
eng	You shall do no regular work; and you
eng	shall offer an offering made by fire to
eng	They put him in custody, until the
eng	LORD’s will should be declared to
eng	If you said, “What shall we eat the
eng	seventh year? Behold, we shall not sow,
eng	nor gather in our increase”;
eng	If there are yet many years, according
eng	to them he shall give back the price of
eng	his redemption out of the money that he
eng	“‘If you in spite of this won’t
eng	listen to me, but walk contrary to me;
eng	and the priest shall value it, whether
eng	it is good or bad. As you the priest
eng	values it, so shall it be.
eng	Of Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar.
eng	those who were counted of them, of the
eng	tribe of Benjamin, were thirty-five
eng	thousand and four hundred.
eng	“The tribe of Gad: and the prince of
eng	the children of Gad shall be Eliasaph
eng	The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
eng	You shall take the Levites for me (I am
eng	the LORD) instead of all the firstborn
eng	amongst the children of Israel; and the
eng	livestock of the Levites instead of all
eng	the firstborn amongst the livestock of
eng	the children of Israel.”
eng	The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
eng	Both you shall put male and female
eng	outside of the camp; that they not
eng	defile their camp, in the middle of
eng	he shall separate himself from wine and
eng	strong drink. He shall drink no vinegar
eng	of wine, or vinegar of fermented drink,
eng	neither shall he drink any juice of
eng	grapes, nor eat fresh grapes or dried.
eng	“Accept these from them, that they
eng	may be used in doing the service of the
eng	Tent of Meeting; and you shall give
eng	them to the Levites, to every man
eng	according to his service.”
eng	one golden ladle of ten shekels, full
eng	one male lamb a year old, for a burnt
eng	The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
eng	When you blow an alarm, the camps that
eng	lie on the east side shall go forward.
eng	When it rested, he said, “Return,
eng	LORD, to the ten thousands of the
eng	thousands of Israel.”
eng	Moses went into the camp, he and the
eng	Of the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son
eng	Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son
eng	of Jephunneh, who were of those who
eng	spied out the land, tore their clothes.
eng	The men, whom Moses sent to spy out the
eng	land, who returned, and made all the
eng	congregation to murmur against him, by
eng	bringing up an evil report against the
eng	“‘When you err, and don’t observe
eng	all these commandments, which the LORD
eng	has spoken to Moses,
eng	Is it a small thing that you have
eng	brought us up out of a land flowing
eng	with milk and honey, to kill us in the
eng	wilderness, but you must also make
eng	yourself a prince over us?
eng	When the congregation was assembled
eng	against Moses and against Aaron, They
eng	looked towards the Tent of Meeting.
eng	Behold, the cloud covered it, and the
eng	LORD’s glory appeared.
eng	You shall eat of it like the most holy
eng	things. Every male shall eat of it. It
eng	shall be holy to you.
eng	“A man who is clean shall gather up
eng	the ashes of the heifer, and lay them
eng	up outside of the camp in a clean
eng	place; and it shall be kept for the
eng	congregation of the children of Israel
eng	for a water for impurity. It is a sin
eng	“Please let us pass through your
eng	land. We will not pass through field or
eng	through vineyard, neither will we drink
eng	from the water of the wells. We will go
eng	along the king’s highway. We will not
eng	turn aside to the right hand nor to the
eng	left, until we have passed your
eng	the well, which the princes dug,
eng	The LORD said to Moses, “Don’t fear
eng	him, for I have delivered him into your
eng	hand, with all his people, and his
eng	land. You shall do to him as you did to
eng	Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived
eng	Balaam said to the donkey, “Because
eng	you have mocked me, I wish there were a
eng	sword in my hand, for now I would have
eng	Behold, it is a people that dwells
eng	‘What has God done!’
eng	He shall eat up the nations his
eng	“Amalek was the first of the nations,
eng	After the plague, the LORD spoke to
eng	Moses and to Eleazar the son of Aaron
eng	and Asriel, the family of the
eng	Asrielites; and Shechem, the family of
eng	Those who were counted of them were
eng	twenty-three thousand, every male from
eng	a month old and upward; for they were
eng	not counted amongst the children of
eng	Israel, because there was no
eng	inheritance given them amongst the
eng	with one tenth of an ephah  of fine
eng	flour for a meal offering, mixed with
eng	the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil.
eng	and one male goat for a sin offering,
eng	to make atonement for you;
eng	but you shall offer a burnt offering,
eng	an offering made by fire, of a pleasant
eng	aroma to the LORD: one bull, one ram,
eng	seven male lambs a year old without
eng	They took all the captives, and all the
eng	plunder, both of man and of animal.
eng	Of the children of Israel’s half,
eng	which Moses divided off from the men
eng	For we will not inherit with them on
eng	the other side of the Jordan, and
eng	forward; because our inheritance has
eng	come to us on this side of the Jordan
eng	They travelled from before Hahiroth,
eng	and crossed through the middle of the
eng	sea into the wilderness. They went
eng	three days’ journey in the wilderness
eng	of Etham, and encamped in Marah.
eng	Aaron was one hundred and twenty-three
eng	years old when he died in Mount Hor.
eng	for the tribe of the children of Reuben
eng	according to their fathers’ houses,
eng	and the tribe of the children of Gad
eng	according to their fathers’ houses,
eng	have received, and the half-tribe of
eng	Manasseh have received, their
eng	“‘But if he struck him with an
eng	instrument of iron, so that he died, he
eng	is a murderer. The murderer shall
eng	surely be put to death.
eng	These are the commandments and the
eng	ordinances which the LORD commanded by
eng	Moses to the children of Israel in the
eng	plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
eng	and in the wilderness, where you have
eng	seen how that the LORD your God bore
eng	you, as a man does bear his son, in all
eng	the way that you went, until you came
eng	So, when all the men of war were
eng	consumed and dead from amongst the
eng	We took all the cities of the plain,
eng	and all Gilead, and all Bashan, to
eng	Salecah and Edrei, cities of the
eng	kingdom of Og in Bashan.
eng	He declared to you his covenant, which
eng	he commanded you to perform, even the
eng	ten commandments. He wrote them on two
eng	This is the law which Moses set before
eng	the children of Israel.
eng	For who is there of all flesh, that has
eng	heard the voice of the living God
eng	speaking out of the middle of the fire,
eng	as we have, and lived?
eng	The LORD commanded us to do all these
eng	statutes, to fear the LORD our God, for
eng	our good always, that he might preserve
eng	us alive, as we are today.
eng	Your clothing didn’t grow old on you,
eng	neither did your foot swell, these
eng	So I turned and came down from the
eng	mountain, and the mountain was burning
eng	with fire. The two tablets of the
eng	covenant were in my two hands.
eng	For the LORD your God, he is God of
eng	gods, and Lord of lords, the great God,
eng	the mighty, and the awesome, who
eng	doesn’t respect persons, nor takes
eng	Behold, I set before you today a
eng	blessing and a curse:
eng	You shall not eat it; that it may go
eng	well with you, and with your children
eng	after you, when you shall do that which
eng	is right in the LORD’s eyes.
eng	Every animal that parts the hoof, and
eng	has the hoof cloven in two and chews
eng	the cud, amongst the animals, that may
eng	but you shall surely open your hand to
eng	him, and shall surely lend him
eng	sufficient for his need, which he lacks.
eng	Three times in a year all of your males
eng	shall appear before the LORD your God
eng	in the place which he chooses: in the
eng	feast of unleavened bread, in the feast
eng	of weeks, and in the feast of tents.
eng	They shall not appear before the LORD
eng	For the LORD your God has chosen him
eng	out of all your tribes, to stand to
eng	minister in the LORD’s name, him and
eng	You shall not remove your neighbour’s
eng	landmark, which they of old time have
eng	set, in your inheritance which you
eng	shall inherit, in the land that the
eng	LORD your God gives you to possess.
eng	The elders of that city shall bring the
eng	heifer down to a valley with running
eng	water, which is neither ploughed nor
eng	sown, and shall break the heifer’s
eng	neck there in the valley.
eng	You shall make yourselves fringes  on
eng	the four corners of your cloak with
eng	which you cover yourself.
eng	You shall have a trowel amongst your
eng	weapons. It shall be, when you relieve
eng	yourself, you shall dig with it, and
eng	shall turn back and cover your
eng	When you reap your harvest in your
eng	field, and have forgotten a sheaf in
eng	the field, you shall not go again to
eng	get it. It shall be for the foreigner,
eng	for the fatherless, and for the widow;
eng	that the LORD your God may bless you in
eng	all the work of your hands.
eng	and he has brought us into this place,
eng	and has given us this land, a land
eng	flowing with milk and honey.
eng	‘Cursed is he who leads the blind
eng	astray on the road.’
eng	and shall not turn aside from any of
eng	the words which I command you today, to
eng	the right hand, or to the left, to go
eng	after other gods to serve them.
eng	All these curses will come on you, and
eng	will pursue you, and overtake you,
eng	until you are destroyed; because you
eng	didn’t listen to the LORD your
eng	God’s voice, to keep his commandments
eng	and his statutes which he commanded you.
eng	When you came to this place, Sihon the
eng	king of Heshbon, and Og the king of
eng	Bashan, came out against us to battle,
eng	The LORD your God will make you
eng	plenteous in all the work of your hand,
eng	in the fruit of your body, in the fruit
eng	of your livestock, and in the fruit of
eng	your ground, for good; for the LORD
eng	will again rejoice over you for good,
eng	as he rejoiced over your fathers;
eng	“Now therefore write this song for
eng	yourselves, and teach it to the
eng	children of Israel. Put it in their
eng	mouths, that this song may be a witness
eng	for me against the children of Israel.
eng	Remember the days of old.
eng	But Jeshurun grew fat, and kicked.
eng	and devoured with burning heat
eng	sealed up amongst my treasures?
eng	and will make atonement for his land
eng	With his hands he contended for himself.
eng	for the precious things of the earth
eng	Possess the west and the south.”
eng	The children of Israel wept for Moses
eng	in the plains of Moab thirty days,
eng	until the days of weeping in the
eng	mourning for Moses were ended.
eng	She said to the men, “I know that the
eng	LORD has given you the land, and that
eng	the fear of you has fallen upon us, and
eng	that all the inhabitants of the land
eng	melt away before you.
eng	the waters which came down from above
eng	stood, and rose up in one heap, a great
eng	way off, at Adam, the city that is
eng	beside Zarethan; and those that went
eng	down towards the sea of the Arabah,
eng	even the Salt Sea, were wholly cut off.
eng	Then the people passed over near
eng	For the children of Israel walked forty
eng	years in the wilderness, until all the
eng	nation, even the men of war who came
eng	out of Egypt, were consumed, because
eng	they didn’t listen to the LORD’s
eng	voice. The LORD swore to them that he
eng	wouldn’t let them see the land which
eng	the LORD swore to their fathers that he
eng	would give us, a land flowing with milk
eng	They utterly destroyed all that was in
eng	the city, both man and woman, both
eng	young and old, and ox, sheep, and
eng	donkey, with the edge of the sword.
eng	Joshua, and all Israel with him, took
eng	Achan the son of Zerah, the silver, the
eng	robe, the wedge of gold, his sons, his
eng	daughters, his cattle, his donkeys, his
eng	sheep, his tent, and all that he had;
eng	and they brought them up to the valley
eng	So Joshua burnt Ai, and made it a heap
eng	forever, even a desolation, to this day.
eng	Now therefore you are cursed, and some
eng	of you will never fail to be slaves,
eng	both wood cutters and drawers of water
eng	for the house of my God.”
eng	Afterward Joshua struck them, put them
eng	to death, and hanged them on five
eng	trees. They were hanging on the trees
eng	The children of Israel took all the
eng	plunder of these cities, with the
eng	livestock, as plunder for themselves;
eng	but every man they struck with the edge
eng	of the sword, until they had destroyed
eng	them. They didn’t leave any who
eng	the king of Adullam, one;
eng	Nevertheless the children of Israel
eng	didn’t drive out the Geshurites, nor
eng	the Maacathites: but Geshur and Maacath
eng	live within Israel to this day.
eng	As yet I am as strong today as I was in
eng	the day that Moses sent me. As my
eng	strength was then, even so is my
eng	strength now for war, to go out and to
eng	Amam, Shema, Moladah,
eng	Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities
eng	with their villages.
eng	Joshua said to them, “If you are a
eng	numerous people, go up to the forest,
eng	and clear land for yourself there in
eng	the land of the Perizzites and of the
eng	Rephaim; since the hill country of
eng	Ephraim is too narrow for you.”
eng	Zelah, Eleph, the Jebusite (also called
eng	Jerusalem), Gibeath, and Kiriath;
eng	fourteen cities with their villages.
eng	This is the inheritance of the children
eng	of Benjamin according to their families.
eng	This is the inheritance of the tribe of
eng	the children of Asher according to
eng	their families, these cities with their
eng	They spoke to them at Shiloh in the
eng	land of Canaan, saying, “The LORD
eng	commanded through Moses to give us
eng	cities to dwell in, with their suburbs
eng	All the cities of the Gershonites
eng	according to their families were
eng	thirteen cities with their suburbs.
eng	However, if the land of your possession
eng	is unclean, then pass over to the land
eng	of the possession of the LORD, in which
eng	the LORD’s tabernacle dwells, and
eng	take possession amongst us; but don’t
eng	rebel against the LORD, nor rebel
eng	against us, in building an altar other
eng	than the LORD our God’s altar.
eng	when you disobey the covenant of the
eng	LORD your God, which he commanded you,
eng	and go and serve other gods, and bow
eng	down yourselves to them. Then the
eng	LORD’s anger will be kindled against
eng	you, and you will perish quickly from
eng	off the good land which he has given to
eng	They buried him in the border of his
eng	inheritance in Timnathserah, which is
eng	in the hill country of Ephraim, on the
eng	north of the mountain of Gaash.
eng	Manasseh did not drive out the
eng	inhabitants of Beth Shean and its
eng	towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor
eng	the inhabitants of Dor and its towns,
eng	nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its
eng	towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo
eng	and its towns; but the Canaanites would
eng	that by them I may test Israel, to see
eng	if they will keep the the LORD’s way
eng	to walk therein, as their fathers kept
eng	So Moab was subdued that day under the
eng	hand of Israel. Then the land had rest
eng	Arise, Barak, and lead away your
eng	captives, you son of Abinoam.’
eng	the prancing of their strong ones.
eng	but let those who love him be as the
eng	sun when it rises in its strength.”
eng	Then Gideon took ten men of his
eng	servants, and did as the LORD had
eng	spoken to him. Because he feared his
eng	father’s household and the men of the
eng	city, he could not do it by day, but he
eng	He said to them, “Watch me, and do
eng	likewise. Behold, when I come to the
eng	outermost part of the camp, it shall be
eng	that, as I do, so you shall do.
eng	Then the men of Israel said to Gideon,
eng	“Rule over us, both you, and your
eng	son, and your son’s son also; for you
eng	have saved us out of the hand of
eng	and you have risen up against my
eng	father’s house today, and have slain
eng	his sons, seventy persons, on one
eng	stone, and have made Abimelech, the son
eng	of his female servant, king over the
eng	men of Shechem, because he is your
eng	Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he
eng	and all the people who were with him;
eng	and Abimelech took an axe in his hand,
eng	and cut down a bough from the trees,
eng	and took it up, and laid it on his
eng	shoulder. Then he said to the people
eng	who were with him, “What you have
eng	seen me do, make haste, and do as I
eng	After a while, the children of Ammon
eng	made war against Israel.
eng	When he saw her, he tore his clothes,
eng	and said, “Alas, my daughter! You
eng	have brought me very low, and you are
eng	one of those who trouble me; for I have
eng	opened my mouth to the LORD, and I
eng	Manoah arose, and followed his wife,
eng	and came to the man, and said to him,
eng	“Are you the man who spoke to my
eng	They spoke to him, saying, “No; but
eng	we will bind you securely, and deliver
eng	you into their hands; but surely we
eng	will not kill you.” They bound him
eng	with two new ropes, and brought him up
eng	However the hair of his head began to
eng	grow again after he was shaved.
eng	The priest said to them, “Go in
eng	peace. Your way in which you go is
eng	So they sat down, ate, and drank, both
eng	of them together. Then the young
eng	lady’s father said to the man,
eng	“Please be pleased to stay all night,
eng	and let your heart be merry.”
eng	Behold, you children of Israel, all of
eng	you, give here your advice and
eng	Ten thousand chosen men out of all
eng	Israel came over against Gibeah, and
eng	the battle was severe; but they
eng	didn’t know that disaster was close
eng	They said, “There must be an
eng	inheritance for those who are escaped
eng	of Benjamin, that a tribe not be
eng	blotted out from Israel.
eng	So Naomi returned, and Ruth the
eng	Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with
eng	her, who returned out of the country of
eng	Moab. They came to Bethlehem in the
eng	beginning of barley harvest.
eng	It shall be, when he lies down, that
eng	you shall note the place where he is
eng	lying. Then you shall go in, uncover
eng	his feet, and lay down. Then he will
eng	tell you what to do.”
eng	The women said to Naomi, “Blessed be
eng	the LORD, who has not left you today
eng	without a near kinsman. Let his name be
eng	Elkanah her husband said to her, “Do
eng	what seems good to you. Wait until you
eng	have weaned him; only may the LORD
eng	establish his word.”
eng	To make them sit with princes,
eng	“Therefore the LORD, the God of
eng	Israel, says, ‘I said indeed that
eng	your house, and the house of your
eng	father, should walk before me
eng	forever.’ But now the LORD says,
eng	‘Far be it from me; for those who
eng	honour me I will honour, and those who
eng	despise me will be lightly esteemed.
eng	Samuel told him every bit, and hid
eng	The Philistines took God’s ark, and
eng	brought it into the house of Dagon, and
eng	He struck of the men of Beth Shemesh,
eng	because they had looked into the
eng	LORD’s ark, he struck fifty thousand
eng	and seventy of the men. Then the people
eng	mourned, because the LORD had struck
eng	the people with a great slaughter.
eng	He said, “This will be the way of the
eng	king who shall reign over you: he will
eng	take your sons, and appoint them as his
eng	servants, for his chariots, and to be
eng	his horsemen; and they will run before
eng	Samuel answered Saul, and said, “I am
eng	the seer. Go up before me to the high
eng	place, for you are to eat with me
eng	today. In the morning I will let you
eng	go, and will tell you all that is in
eng	Therefore they asked of the LORD
eng	further, “Is there yet a man to come
eng	“When Jacob had come into Egypt, and
eng	your fathers cried to the LORD, then
eng	the LORD sent Moses and Aaron, who
eng	brought your fathers out of Egypt, and
eng	made them to dwell in this place.
eng	Samuel said to Saul, “You have done
eng	foolishly. You have not kept the
eng	commandment of the LORD your God, which
eng	he commanded you; for now the LORD
eng	would have established your kingdom on
eng	Saul and all the people who were with
eng	him were gathered together, and came to
eng	the battle; and behold, they were all
eng	striking each other with their swords
eng	in very great confusion.
eng	Saul said, “God do so and more also;
eng	for you shall surely die, Jonathan.”
eng	Samuel said, “Has the LORD as great
eng	delight in burnt offerings and
eng	sacrifices, as in obeying the LORD’s
eng	voice? Behold, to obey is better than
eng	sacrifice, and to listen than the fat
eng	Now the LORD’s Spirit departed from
eng	Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD
eng	Israel and the Philistines put the
eng	battle in array, army against army.
eng	Then David ran, stood over the
eng	Philistine, took his sword, drew it out
eng	of its sheath, killed him, and cut off
eng	his head with it. When the Philistines
eng	saw that their champion was dead, they
eng	Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved David;
eng	and they told Saul, and the thing
eng	Saul sent messengers to seize David:
eng	and when they saw the company of the
eng	prophets prophesying, and Samuel
eng	standing as head over them, God’s
eng	Spirit came on Saul’s messengers, and
eng	they also prophesied.
eng	Nevertheless Saul didn’t say anything
eng	that day, for he thought, “Something
eng	has happened to him. He is not clean.
eng	Surely he is not clean.”
eng	David laid up these words in his heart,
eng	and was very afraid of Achish the king
eng	Therefore David enquired of the LORD,
eng	saying, “Shall I go and strike these
eng	When Saul had returned from following
eng	the Philistines, he was told,
eng	“Behold, David is in the wilderness
eng	Ask your young men, and they will tell
eng	you. Therefore let the young men find
eng	favour in your eyes; for we come on a
eng	good day. Please give whatever comes to
eng	your hand, to your servants, and to
eng	About ten days later, the LORD struck
eng	Nabal, so that he died.
eng	David answered, “Behold the spear, O
eng	king! Then let one of the young men
eng	come over and get it.
eng	When the woman saw Samuel, she cried
eng	with a loud voice; and the woman spoke
eng	to Saul, saying, “Why have you
eng	deceived me? For you are Saul!”
eng	When David and his men had come to
eng	Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites
eng	had made a raid on the South, and on
eng	Ziklag, and had struck Ziklag, and
eng	to those who were in Aroer, to those
eng	who were in Siphmoth, to those who were
eng	David said to the young man who told
eng	him, “Where are you from?”
eng	You have been very pleasant to me.
eng	Abner said again to Asahel, “Turn
eng	aside from following me. Why should I
eng	strike you to the ground? How then
eng	could I look Joab your brother in the
eng	Abner said to David, “I will arise
eng	and go, and will gather all Israel to
eng	my lord the king, that they may make a
eng	covenant with you, and that you may
eng	reign over all that your soul
eng	desires.” David sent Abner away; and
eng	David commanded his young men, and they
eng	killed them, cut off their hands and
eng	their feet, and hanged them up beside
eng	the pool in Hebron. But they took the
eng	head of Ishbosheth, and buried it in
eng	Abner’s grave in Hebron.
eng	When they came to the threshing floor
eng	of Nacon, Uzzah reached for God’s
eng	ark, and took hold of it; for the
eng	He will build a house for my name, and
eng	I will establish the throne of his
eng	David reigned over all Israel; and
eng	David executed justice and
eng	righteousness for all his people.
eng	The rest of the people he committed
eng	into the hand of Abishai his brother;
eng	and he put them in array against the
eng	So the messenger went, and came and
eng	showed David all that Joab had sent him
eng	But now he is dead, why should I fast?
eng	Can I bring him back again? I will go
eng	to him, but he will not return to me.”
eng	So Tamar remained desolate in her
eng	brother Absalom’s house.
eng	The king said, “Whoever says anything
eng	to you, bring him to me, and he will
eng	not bother you any more.”
eng	Absalom said to him, “Behold, your
eng	matters are good and right; but there
eng	is no man deputized by the king to hear
eng	When David had come to the top, where
eng	God was worshipped, behold, Hushai the
eng	Archite came to meet him with his coat
eng	torn, and earth on his head.
eng	The counsel of Ahithophel, which he
eng	gave in those days, was as if a man
eng	enquired at the inner sanctuary of God.
eng	So was all the counsel of Ahithophel
eng	both with David and with Absalom.
eng	honey, butter, sheep, and cheese of the
eng	herd, for David, and for the people who
eng	were with him, to eat; for they said,
eng	“The people are hungry, and weary,
eng	and thirsty in the wilderness.”
eng	The watchman said, “I think the
eng	running of the first one is like the
eng	running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok.”
eng	David said, “What have I to do with
eng	you, you sons of Zeruiah, that you
eng	should be adversaries to me today?
eng	Shall any man be put to death today in
eng	Israel? For don’t I know that I am
eng	king over Israel today?”
eng	But Amasa took no heed to the sword
eng	that was in Joab’s hand. So he struck
eng	him with it in the body, and shed out
eng	his bowels to the ground, and didn’t
eng	strike him again; and he died. Joab and
eng	Abishai his brother pursued Sheba the
eng	He delivered them into the hands of the
eng	Gibeonites, and they hanged them on the
eng	mountain before the LORD, and all seven
eng	of them fell together. They were put to
eng	death in the days of harvest, in the
eng	first days, at the beginning of barley
eng	He heard my voice out of his temple.
eng	The LORD rewarded me according to my
eng	You have also given me the shield of
eng	Yes, you lift me up above those who
eng	These are the names of the mighty men
eng	whom David had: Josheb Basshebeth a
eng	Tahchemonite, chief of the captains;
eng	the same was Adino the Eznite, against
eng	eight hundred slain at one time.
eng	and Uriah the Hittite: thirty-seven in
eng	Then Adonijah the son of Haggith
eng	exalted himself, saying, “I will be
eng	king.” Then he prepared him chariots
eng	and horsemen, and fifty men to run
eng	Then come up after him, and he shall
eng	come and sit on my throne; for he shall
eng	be king in my place. I have appointed
eng	him to be prince over Israel and over
eng	Then Adonijah the son of Haggith came
eng	to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon. She
eng	said, “Do you come peaceably?”
eng	Shimei said to the king, “What you
eng	say is good. As my lord the king has
eng	said, so will your servant do.”
eng	Shimei lived in Jerusalem many days.
eng	The first one said, “No; but the dead
eng	one is your son, and the living one is
eng	my son.” Thus they spoke before the
eng	For he had dominion over all on this
eng	side the River, from Tiphsah even to
eng	Gaza, over all the kings on this side
eng	the River: and he had peace on all
eng	The porch in front of the temple of the
eng	house had a length of twenty cubits,
eng	which was along the width of the house.
eng	Ten cubits was its width in front of
eng	He carved cherubim, palm trees, and
eng	open flowers; and he overlaid them with
eng	gold fitted on the engraved work.
eng	The work of the bases was like this:
eng	they had panels; and there were panels
eng	The poles were so long that the ends of
eng	the poles were seen from the holy place
eng	before the inner sanctuary; but they
eng	were not seen outside. They are there
eng	then hear in heaven, your dwelling
eng	place, and forgive, and act, and give
eng	to every man according to all his ways,
eng	whose heart you know; (for you, even
eng	you only, know the hearts of all the
eng	As for you, if you will walk before me,
eng	as David your father walked, in
eng	integrity of heart, and in uprightness,
eng	to do according to all that I have
eng	commanded you, and will keep my
eng	statutes and my ordinances;
eng	However I didn’t believe the words
eng	until I came and my eyes had seen it.
eng	Behold, not even half was told me! Your
eng	wisdom and prosperity exceed the fame
eng	The LORD was angry with Solomon,
eng	because his heart was turned away from
eng	the LORD, the God of Israel, who had
eng	appeared to him twice,
eng	I will afflict the offspring  of David
eng	for this, but not forever.’”
eng	Jeroboam said in his heart, “Now the
eng	kingdom will return to David’s house.
eng	but came back, and have eaten bread and
eng	drank water in the place of which he
eng	said to you, “Eat no bread, and drink
eng	no water”; your body will not come to
eng	the tomb of your fathers.’”
eng	The rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how
eng	he fought, and how he reigned, behold,
eng	they are written in the book of the
eng	chronicles of the kings of Israel.
eng	“There is a treaty between me and
eng	you, between my father and your father.
eng	Behold, I have sent to you a present of
eng	silver and gold. Go, break your treaty
eng	with Baasha king of Israel, that he may
eng	The people who were encamped heard that
eng	Zimri had conspired, and had also
eng	killed the king. Therefore all Israel
eng	made Omri, the captain of the army,
eng	king over Israel that day in the camp.
eng	Elijah said to her, “Don’t be
eng	afraid. Go and do as you have said; but
eng	make me a little cake from it first,
eng	and bring it out to me, and afterward
eng	make some for you and for your son.
eng	So Ahab sent to all the children of
eng	Israel, and gathered the prophets
eng	together to Mount Carmel.
eng	In a little while, the sky grew black
eng	with clouds and wind, and there was a
eng	great rain. Ahab rode, and went to
eng	Then the king of Israel called all the
eng	elders of the land, and said, “Please
eng	notice how this man seeks mischief; for
eng	he sent to me for my wives, and for my
eng	children, and for my silver, and for my
eng	gold; and I didn’t deny him.”
eng	He said, “Is he still alive? He is my
eng	Then they sent to Jezebel, saying,
eng	“Naboth has been stoned, and is
eng	All the prophets prophesied so, saying,
eng	“Go up to Ramoth Gilead, and prosper;
eng	for the LORD will deliver it into the
eng	So Ahab slept with his fathers; and
eng	Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
eng	He said to him, “the LORD says,
eng	‘Because you have sent messengers to
eng	enquire of Baal Zebub, the god of
eng	Ekron, is it because there is no God in
eng	Israel to enquire of his word?
eng	Therefore you will not come down from
eng	the bed where you have gone up, but you
eng	He said, “Bring me a new jar, and put
eng	salt in it.” Then they brought it to
eng	They rose up early in the morning, and
eng	the sun shone on the water, and the
eng	Moabites saw the water opposite them as
eng	When he had taken him, and brought him
eng	to his mother, he sat on her knees
eng	until noon, and then died.
eng	The Syrians had gone out in bands, and
eng	had brought away captive out of the
eng	land of Israel a little maiden; and she
eng	waited on Naaman’s wife.
eng	The sons of the prophets said to
eng	Elisha, “See now, the place where we
eng	live and meet with you is too small for
eng	He said, “If the LORD doesn’t help
eng	you, where could I get help for you?
eng	From of the threshing floor, or from
eng	At the end of seven years, the woman
eng	returned from the land of the
eng	Philistines. Then she went out to beg
eng	the king for her house and for her land.
eng	Then take the vial of oil, and pour it
eng	on his head, and say, ‘the LORD says,
eng	“I have anointed you king over
eng	Israel.”’ Then open the door, flee,
eng	Jehu drew his bow with his full
eng	strength, and struck Joram between his
eng	arms; and the arrow went out at his
eng	heart, and he sunk down in his chariot.
eng	Jehu met with the brothers of Ahaziah
eng	king of Judah, and said, “Who are
eng	But Jehosheba, the daughter of king
eng	Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash
eng	the son of Ahaziah, and stole him away
eng	from amongst the king’s sons who were
eng	slain, even him and his nurse, and put
eng	them in the bedroom; and they hid him
eng	from Athaliah, so that he was not slain.
eng	and to the masons and the stone
eng	cutters, and for buying timber and cut
eng	stone to repair the damage to the
eng	LORD’s house, and for all that was
eng	laid out for the house to repair it.
eng	As they were burying a man, behold,
eng	they saw a band of raiders; and they
eng	threw the man into Elisha’s tomb. As
eng	soon as the man touched Elisha’s
eng	bones, he revived, and stood up on his
eng	The LORD didn’t say that he would
eng	blot out the name of Israel from under
eng	the sky; but he saved them by the hand
eng	of Jeroboam the son of Joash.
eng	In the days of Pekah king of Israel,
eng	Tiglath Pileser king of Assyria came
eng	and took Ijon, Abel Beth Maacah,
eng	Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, and
eng	Galilee, all the land of Naphtali; and
eng	he carried them captive to Assyria.
eng	He did that which was evil in the
eng	LORD’s sight, yet not as the kings of
eng	Israel who were before him.
eng	They feared the LORD, and also served
eng	their own gods, after the ways of the
eng	nations from amongst whom they had been
eng	Now therefore, please give pledges to
eng	my master the king of Assyria, and I
eng	will give you two thousand horses, if
eng	you are able on your part to set riders
eng	Truly, LORD, the kings of Assyria have
eng	laid waste the nations and their lands,
eng	Hezekiah answered, “It is a light
eng	thing for the shadow to go forward ten
eng	steps. No, but let the shadow return
eng	backward ten steps.”
eng	Manasseh slept with his fathers, and
eng	was buried in the garden of his own
eng	house, in the garden of Uzza; and Amon
eng	his son reigned in his place.
eng	The king stood by the pillar, and made
eng	a covenant before the LORD, to walk
eng	after the LORD, and to keep his
eng	commandments, his testimonies, and his
eng	statutes, with all his heart, and all
eng	his soul, to confirm the words of this
eng	covenant that were written in this
eng	book; and all the people agreed to the
eng	Pharaoh Necoh put him in bonds at
eng	Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he
eng	might not reign in Jerusalem; and put
eng	the land to a tribute of one hundred
eng	talents of silver, and a talent  of
eng	Then they captured the king, and
eng	carried him up to the king of Babylon
eng	to Riblah; and they passed judgement on
eng	The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish,
eng	Kittim, and Rodanim.
eng	The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal,
eng	Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.
eng	Ozem the sixth, David the seventh;
eng	Ephah, Caleb’s concubine, bore Haran,
eng	Moza, and Gazez; and Haran became the
eng	The son of Shecaniah: Shemaiah. The
eng	sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igal,
eng	Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
eng	They lived at Beersheba, Moladah,
eng	They lived in Gilead in Bashan, and in
eng	its towns, and in all the suburbs of
eng	Sharon, as far as their borders.
eng	Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his
eng	son, and Jeatherai his son.
eng	Meraioth his son, Amariah his son,
eng	The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah,
eng	Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, and Shemuel,
eng	heads of their fathers’ houses, of
eng	Tola; mighty men of valour in their
eng	generations. Their number in the days
eng	of David was twenty-two thousand and
eng	The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal,
eng	and Ashvath. These are the children of
eng	Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
eng	and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the
eng	son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and
eng	Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of
eng	Elkanah, who lived in the villages of
eng	The battle went hard against Saul, and
eng	the archers overtook him; and he was
eng	distressed by reason of the archers.
eng	and said, “My God forbid me, that I
eng	should do this! Shall I drink the blood
eng	of these men who have put their lives
eng	in jeopardy?” For they risked their
eng	lives to bring it. Therefore he would
eng	not drink it. The three mighty men did
eng	The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the
eng	sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; Jeziel
eng	and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth;
eng	Beracah; Jehu the Anathothite;
eng	Of Naphtali one thousand captains, and
eng	with them with shield and spear
eng	thirty-seven thousand.
eng	The LORD said to him, “Go up; for I
eng	will deliver them into your hand.”
eng	Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai,
eng	Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer, the
eng	priests, blew the trumpets before
eng	God’s ark; and Obed-Edom and Jehiah
eng	were doorkeepers for the ark.
eng	the covenant which he made with Abraham,
eng	Let the heavens be glad,
eng	I will appoint a place for my people
eng	Israel, and will plant them, that they
eng	may dwell in their own place, and be
eng	moved no more. The children of
eng	wickedness will not waste them any
eng	more, as at the first,
eng	He put garrisons in Edom; and all the
eng	Edomites became servants to David. The
eng	LORD gave victory to David wherever he
eng	When he defied Israel, Jonathan the son
eng	of Shimea David’s brother killed him.
eng	For the LORD’s tabernacle, which
eng	Moses made in the wilderness, and the
eng	altar of burnt offering, were at that
eng	time in the high place at Gibeon.
eng	Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the
eng	second; but Jeush and Beriah didn’t
eng	have many sons; therefore they became a
eng	fathers’ house in one reckoning.
eng	the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to
eng	the third to Zaccur, his sons and his
eng	Also Hosah, of the children of Merari,
eng	had sons: Shimri the chief (for though
eng	he was not the firstborn, yet his
eng	father made him chief),
eng	The sixth captain for the sixth month
eng	was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite:
eng	and in his division were twenty-four
eng	He said to me, ‘Solomon, your son,
eng	shall build my house and my courts; for
eng	I have chosen him to be my son, and I
eng	LORD our God, all this store that we
eng	have prepared to build you a house for
eng	your holy name comes from your hand,
eng	and is all your own.
eng	The horses which Solomon had were
eng	brought out of Egypt and from Kue. The
eng	king’s merchants purchased them from
eng	The wing of the other cherub was five
eng	cubits, reaching to the wall of the
eng	house; and the other wing was five
eng	cubits, joining to the wing of the
eng	So all the men of Israel assembled
eng	themselves to the king at the feast,
eng	which was in the seventh month.
eng	Now therefore, LORD, the God of Israel,
eng	let your word be verified, which you
eng	spoke to your servant David.
eng	Then the king and all the people
eng	offered sacrifices before the LORD.
eng	even as the duty of every day required,
eng	offering according to the commandment
eng	of Moses, on the Sabbaths, on the new
eng	moons, and on the set feasts, three
eng	times per year, during the feast of
eng	unleavened bread, during the feast of
eng	weeks, and during the feast of tents.
eng	He ruled over all the kings from the
eng	River even to the land of the
eng	Philistines, and to the border of Egypt.
eng	He built Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa,
eng	He did that which was evil, because he
eng	didn’t set his heart to seek the LORD.
eng	Asa had an army of three hundred
eng	thousand out of Judah who bore bucklers
eng	and spears, and two hundred and eighty
eng	thousand out of Benjamin who bore
eng	shields and drew bows. All these were
eng	mighty men of valour.
eng	When Baasha heard of it, he stopped
eng	building Ramah, and let his work cease.
eng	Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat
eng	king of Judah, “Will you go with me
eng	So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat
eng	the king of Judah went up to Ramoth
eng	Then the LORD’s Spirit came on
eng	Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son
eng	of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son
eng	of Mattaniah, the Levite, of the sons
eng	of Asaph, in the middle of the assembly;
eng	In his days Edom revolted from under
eng	the hand of Judah, and made a king over
eng	The Levites shall surround the king,
eng	every man with his weapons in his hand.
eng	Whoever comes into the house, let him
eng	be slain. Be with the king when he
eng	comes in, and when he goes out.”
eng	Now after the death of Jehoiada, the
eng	princes of Judah came, and bowed down
eng	to the king. Then the king listened to
eng	You say to yourself that you have
eng	struck Edom; and your heart lifts you
eng	up to boast. Now stay at home. Why
eng	should you meddle with trouble, that
eng	you should fall, even you, and Judah
eng	Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah,
eng	first and last, Isaiah the prophet, the
eng	For Ahaz took away a portion out of the
eng	LORD’s house, and out of the house of
eng	the king and of the princes, and gave
eng	it to the king of Assyria; but it
eng	He set the Levites in the LORD’s
eng	house with cymbals, with stringed
eng	instruments, and with harps, according
eng	to the commandment of David, of Gad the
eng	king’s seer, and Nathan the prophet;
eng	for the commandment was from the LORD
eng	The LORD listened to Hezekiah, and
eng	he took counsel with his princes and
eng	his mighty men to stop the waters of
eng	the springs which were outside of the
eng	city, and they helped him.
eng	Manasseh was twelve years old when he
eng	began to reign, and he reigned
eng	fifty-five years in Jerusalem.
eng	He broke down the altars, and beat the
eng	Asherah poles and the engraved images
eng	into powder, and cut down all the
eng	incense altars throughout all the land
eng	of Israel, then returned to Jerusalem.
eng	Prepare yourselves after your
eng	fathers’ houses by your divisions,
eng	according to the writing of David king
eng	of Israel, and according to the writing
eng	Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim,
eng	and his abominations which he did, and
eng	that which was found in him, behold,
eng	they are written in the book of the
eng	kings of Israel and Judah; and
eng	Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
eng	The children of Parosh, two thousand
eng	and one hundred and seventy-two.
eng	The children of Jericho, three hundred
eng	besides their male servants and their
eng	female servants, of whom there were
eng	seven thousand and three hundred and
eng	thirty-seven; and they had two hundred
eng	singing men and singing women.
eng	From your servants the men beyond the
eng	Then the same Sheshbazzar came and laid
eng	the foundations of God’s house which
eng	is in Jerusalem. Since that time even
eng	until now has it been in building, and
eng	yet it is not completed.
eng	He came to Jerusalem in the fifth
eng	month, which was in the seventh year of
eng	Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son
eng	of Athaliah; and with him seventy males.
eng	For they have taken of their daughters
eng	for themselves and for their sons, so
eng	that the holy offspring  have mixed
eng	themselves with the peoples of the
eng	lands. Yes, the hand of the princes and
eng	rulers has been chief in this
eng	Amongst the sons of the priests there
eng	were found who had married foreign
eng	They said to me, “The remnant who are
eng	left of the captivity there in the
eng	province are in great affliction and
eng	reproach. The wall of Jerusalem is also
eng	broken down, and its gates are burnt
eng	I told them of the hand of my God which
eng	was good on me, as also of the king’s
eng	words that he had spoken to me.
eng	After them, Zadok the son of Immer made
eng	repairs across from his own house.
eng	After him, Shemaiah the son of
eng	Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate
eng	Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of
eng	our brothers, our children as their
eng	children. Behold,  we bring our sons
eng	and our daughters into bondage to be
eng	servants, and some of our daughters
eng	have been brought into bondage. It is
eng	also not in our power to help it,
eng	because other men have our fields and
eng	So the wall was finished in the
eng	twenty-fifth day of Elul, in fifty-two
eng	The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, one
eng	hundred and eighty-eight.
eng	The children of Solomon’s servants:
eng	the children of Sotai, the children of
eng	Sophereth, the children of Perida,
eng	On the second day, the heads of
eng	fathers’ households of all the
eng	people, the priests, and the Levites
eng	were gathered together to Ezra the
eng	scribe, to study the words of the law.
eng	“Nevertheless they were disobedient,
eng	and rebelled against you, cast your law
eng	behind their back, killed your prophets
eng	that testified against them to turn
eng	them again to you, and they committed
eng	Hariph, Anathoth, Nobai,
eng	Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of
eng	Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of
eng	Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler
eng	Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah.
eng	By the spring gate, and straight before
eng	them, they went up by the stairs of
eng	David’s city, at the ascent of the
eng	wall, above David’s house, even to
eng	the water gate eastward.
eng	Then I testified against them, and said
eng	to them, “Why do you stay around the
eng	wall? If you do so again, I will lay
eng	hands on you.” From that time on,
eng	they didn’t come on the Sabbath.
eng	This advice pleased the king and the
eng	princes, and the king did according to
eng	the word of Memucan:
eng	In the first month, which is the month
eng	Nisan, in the twelfth year of King
eng	Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the
eng	lot, before Haman from day to day, and
eng	from month to month, and chose the
eng	twelfth month, which is the month Adar.
eng	The king said to Esther at the banquet
eng	of wine, “What is your petition? It
eng	shall be granted you. What is your
eng	request? Even to the half of the
eng	kingdom it shall be performed.”
eng	Esther said, “An adversary and an
eng	enemy, even this wicked Haman!”
eng	Poratha, Adalia, Aridatha,
eng	His sons went and held a feast in the
eng	house of each one on his birthday; and
eng	they sent and called for their three
eng	sisters to eat and to drink with them.
eng	But he said to her, “You speak as one
eng	of the foolish women would speak. What?
eng	Shall we receive good at the hand of
eng	God, and shall we not receive evil?”
eng	For now should I have lain down and
eng	Behold, you have instructed many,
eng	‘Shall mortal man be more just than
eng	who gives rain on the earth,
eng	Your offspring as the grass of the
eng	That wisdom is driven quite from me?
eng	that you put a guard over me?
eng	If you were pure and upright,
eng	He will still fill your mouth with
eng	Though I were righteous, yet I
eng	wouldn’t answer him.
eng	Why then do I labour in vain?
eng	Remember, I beg you, that you have
eng	fashioned me as clay.
eng	of the shadow of death,
eng	Surely then you shall lift up your face
eng	Who doesn’t know that in all these,
eng	and causes them to wander in a
eng	wilderness where there is no way.
eng	Behold, he will kill me.
eng	is of few days, and full of trouble.
eng	until my release should come.
eng	Have you heard the secret counsel of
eng	He knows that the day of darkness is
eng	Or what provokes you that you answer?
eng	and have thrust my horn in the dust.
eng	The innocent shall stir up himself
eng	against the godless.
eng	For he is cast into a net by his own
eng	You have reproached me ten times.
eng	Even young children despise me.
eng	Don’t you know this from old time,
eng	He has violently taken away a house,
eng	and he shall not build it up.
eng	Lay your hand on your mouth.
eng	Let him drink of the wrath of the
eng	“Can a man be profitable to God?
eng	and, ‘What can the Almighty do for
eng	That I might come even to his seat!
eng	There are people who remove the
eng	saying, ‘No eye shall see me.’
eng	On whom does his light not arise?
eng	His hand has pierced the swift serpent.
eng	and prepare clothing as the clay;
eng	The proud animals have not trodden it,
eng	and he knows its place.
eng	and their tongue stuck to the roof of
eng	as one who comforts the mourners.
eng	Terrors have turned on me.
eng	My skin grows black and peels from me.
eng	when they contended with me;
eng	“If I have rejoiced at the
eng	destruction of him who hated me,
eng	When Elihu saw that there was no answer
eng	in the mouth of these three men, his
eng	like new wineskins it is ready to burst.
eng	Why do you strive against him,
eng	He restores to man his righteousness.
eng	For he has said, ‘It profits a man
eng	For he doesn’t need to consider a man
eng	He claps his hands amongst us,
eng	Therefore Job opens his mouth with
eng	He delivers the afflicted by their
eng	Behold, he spreads his light around him.
eng	He spreads abroad the cloud of his
eng	by words without knowledge?
eng	Have you comprehended the earth in its
eng	Can you establish its dominion over the
eng	He scorns the tumult of the city,
eng	neither does he turn back from the
eng	Or do you have an arm like God?
eng	or pierce through his nose with a snare?
eng	One is so near to another,
eng	He makes the deep to boil like a pot.
eng	nor stand on the path of sinners,
eng	You shall break them with a rod of iron.
eng	Give me relief from my distress.
eng	I will bow towards your holy temple in
eng	Depart from me, all you workers of
eng	God is a righteous judge,
eng	In the gates of the daughter of Zion, I
eng	will rejoice in your salvation.
eng	He lies in wait near the villages.
eng	For, behold, the wicked bend their bows.
eng	You will preserve them from this
eng	for God is in the generation of the
eng	I will bless the LORD, who has given me
eng	my deadly enemies, who surround me.
eng	Then the earth shook and trembled.
eng	The LORD has rewarded me according to
eng	Your right hand sustains me.
eng	and will sing praises to your name.
eng	Let them not have dominion over me.
eng	They trusted, and you delivered them.
eng	They look and stare at me.
eng	They shall come and shall declare his
eng	righteousness to a people that shall be
eng	He will guide the humble in justice.
eng	Try my heart and my mind.
eng	One thing I have asked of the LORD,
eng	that I will seek after:
eng	To you, LORD, I call.
eng	The LORD’s voice is on the waters.
eng	You, LORD, when you favoured me, made
eng	my mountain stand strong;
eng	You have not shut me up into the hand
eng	In the shelter of your presence you
eng	will hide them from the plotting of man.
eng	I will counsel you with my eye on you.
eng	The LORD looks from heaven.
eng	the LORD’s angel encamps around those
eng	None of those who take refuge in him
eng	I bowed down mourning, as one who
eng	An inner sanctuary is within my heart
eng	about the disobedience of the wicked:
eng	Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe
eng	The LORD knows the days of the perfect.
eng	The law of his God is in his heart.
eng	because of my foolishness.
eng	They who also render evil for good are
eng	Remove your scourge away from me.
eng	I delight to do your will, my God.
eng	I said, “LORD, have mercy on me!
eng	with the voice of joy and praise, a
eng	multitude keeping a holy day.
eng	I will praise you on the harp, God, my
eng	You make us turn back from the
eng	Why do you hide your face,
eng	The rich amongst the people entreat
eng	He burns the chariots in the fire.
eng	is Mount Zion, on the north sides,
eng	Listen, all you inhabitants of the
eng	Their beauty shall decay in Sheol,
eng	“Now consider this, you who forget
eng	Sinners shall be converted to you.
eng	But as for me, I am like a green olive
eng	tree in God’s house.
eng	They haven’t set God before them.
eng	Malice and abuse are also within her.
eng	Cast your burden on the LORD, and he
eng	Your vows are on me, God.
eng	I will sing praises to you amongst the
eng	For, behold, they lie in wait for my
eng	Let them howl like a dog, and go around
eng	Moab is my wash basin.
eng	I will never be greatly shaken.
eng	God, you are my God.
eng	and aim their arrows, deadly words,
eng	of those who are far away on the sea;
eng	they will sing to your name.”
eng	I will declare what he has done for my
eng	As wax melts before the fire,
eng	When the Almighty scattered kings in
eng	the princes of Judah, their council,
eng	Those who want to cut me off, being my
eng	enemies wrongfully, are mighty.
eng	Ransom me because of my enemies.
eng	and doesn’t despise his captive
eng	I have relied on you from the womb.
eng	God, who is like you?
eng	His enemies shall lick the dust.
eng	For I was envious of the arrogant,
eng	You throw them down to destruction.
eng	They behaved like men wielding axes,
eng	for haunts of violence fill the dark
eng	places of the earth.
eng	In Judah, God is known.
eng	My soul refused to be comforted.
eng	The waters saw you, God.
eng	but keep his commandments,
eng	Therefore the LORD heard, and was angry.
eng	the Most High God, their redeemer.
eng	He made a path for his anger.
eng	and their widows couldn’t weep.
eng	on the kingdoms that don’t call on
eng	Our enemies laugh amongst themselves.
eng	Raise a song, and bring here the
eng	and their punishment would last forever.
eng	They form an alliance against you.
eng	Yes, the sparrow has found a home,
eng	You have turned from the fierceness of
eng	abundant in loving kindness to all
eng	those who call on you.
eng	Glorious things are spoken about you,
eng	I am confined, and I can’t escape.
eng	and build up your throne to all
eng	our king to the Holy One of Israel.
eng	nor allow my faithfulness to fail.
eng	For what vanity have you created all
eng	the children of men!
eng	or even by reason of strength eighty
eng	nor of the destruction that wastes at
eng	How great are your works, LORD!
eng	The floods have lifted up, LORD,
eng	Blessed is the man whom you discipline,
eng	In his hand are the deep places of the
eng	Strength and beauty are in his
eng	All the peoples have seen his glory.
eng	Let the mountains sing for joy together.
eng	Serve the LORD with gladness.
eng	Hear my prayer, LORD!
eng	For the LORD has built up Zion.
eng	who forgives all your sins;
eng	to those who remember to obey his
eng	that they don’t turn again to cover
eng	The LORD, how many are your works!
eng	Tell of all his marvellous works.
eng	They bruised his feet with shackles.
eng	and shattered the trees of their
eng	Blessed are those who keep justice.
eng	The earth opened and swallowed up
eng	They angered him also at the waters of
eng	by all those who carried them captive.
eng	and condemned the counsel of the Most
eng	They reel back and forth, and stagger
eng	All the wicked will shut their mouths.
eng	God of my praise, don’t remain silent,
eng	the broken in heart, to kill them.
eng	For he will stand at the right hand of
eng	All his precepts are sure.
eng	The desire of the wicked will perish.
eng	you little hills, like lambs?
eng	He will bless the house of Aaron.
eng	and my feet from falling.
eng	that his loving kindness endures
eng	but he has not given me over to death.
eng	that we should fully obey them.
eng	You have rebuked the proud who are
eng	not towards selfish gain.
eng	I remember your ordinances of old, LORD,
eng	but now I observe your word.
eng	I don’t forget your statutes.
eng	I have more understanding than all my
eng	I hope in your word.
eng	The entrance of your words gives light.
eng	Every one of your righteous ordinances
eng	I have gone astray like a lost sheep.
eng	from this time forward, and forever
eng	when men rose up against us;
eng	Restore our fortunes again, LORD,
eng	Peace be upon Israel.
eng	for with the LORD there is loving
eng	He will not turn from it:
eng	May the LORD bless you from Zion;
eng	For the LORD will judge his people,
eng	The sun to rule by day;
eng	for his loving kindness endures forever;
eng	and give thanks to your Name for your
eng	loving kindness and for your truth;
eng	If I ascend up into heaven, you are
eng	Your enemies take your name in vain.
eng	Let burning coals fall on them.
eng	from the traps of the workers of
eng	For the enemy pursues my soul.
eng	who teaches my hands to war,
eng	There is no breaking in, and no going
eng	The LORD upholds all who fall,
eng	The LORD frees the prisoners.
eng	He takes no pleasure in the legs of a
eng	Let them praise the LORD’s name,
eng	He crowns the humble with salvation.
eng	knowledge and discretion to the young
eng	Wisdom calls aloud in the street.
eng	My son, if you will receive my words,
eng	even from the foreigner who flatters
eng	with the first fruits of all your
eng	Don’t be afraid of sudden fear,
eng	Keep my commandments, and live.
eng	that shines more and more until the
eng	Now therefore, my sons, listen to me.
eng	The evil deeds of the wicked ensnare
eng	in whose heart is perverseness,
eng	Or can one walk on hot coals,
eng	he went the way to her house,
eng	as a bird hurries to the snare,
eng	All the things that may be desired
eng	can’t be compared to it.
eng	When he established the heavens, I was
eng	As for him who is void of
eng	understanding, she says to him,
eng	but a foolish son brings grief to his
eng	He is in the way of life who heeds
eng	but the mouth of the wicked is perverse.
eng	A gracious woman obtains honour,
eng	how much more the wicked and the sinner!
eng	A fool shows his annoyance the same day,
eng	One who opens wide his lips comes to
eng	but fools detest turning from evil.
eng	The heart knows its own bitterness and
eng	but a false witness is deceitful.
eng	In the house of the righteous is much
eng	but a man of understanding keeps his
eng	The LORD has made everything for its
eng	than to divide the plunder with the
eng	A servant who deals wisely will rule
eng	over a son who causes shame,
eng	and a brother is born for adversity.
eng	To be partial to the faces of the
eng	With the harvest of his lips he is
eng	It is his glory to overlook an offence.
eng	If you stop listening to instruction,
eng	Open your eyes, and you shall be
eng	satisfied with bread.
eng	The glory of young men is their
eng	and a bribe in the cloak, strong wrath.
eng	There is no wisdom nor understanding
eng	He who is under the LORD’s wrath will
eng	He won’t serve obscure men.
eng	then my heart will be glad, even mine:
eng	Who has needless bruises?
eng	One who plots to do evil
eng	for their calamity will rise suddenly;
eng	As the heavens for height, and the
eng	Let your foot be seldom in your
eng	a bridle for the donkey,
eng	Like a madman who shoots torches,
eng	but who is able to stand before
eng	Like water reflects a face,
eng	Whoever keeps the law is a wise son;
eng	A stingy man hurries after riches,
eng	the fool rages or scoffs, and there is
eng	The fear of man proves to be a snare,
eng	lest he curse you, and you be held
eng	“For three things the earth tremble,
eng	With the fruit of her hands, she plants
eng	The words of the Preacher, the son of
eng	David, king in Jerusalem:
eng	The wise man’s eyes are in his head,
eng	and the fool walks in darkness—and
eng	yet I perceived that one event happens
eng	Then I returned and saw vanity under
eng	a man to whom God gives riches, wealth,
eng	and honour, so that he lacks nothing
eng	for his soul of all that he desires,
eng	yet God gives him no power to eat of
eng	it, but an alien eats it. This is
eng	vanity, and it is an evil disease.
eng	Surely there is not a righteous man on
eng	earth, who does good and doesn’t sin.
eng	For the living know that they will die,
eng	but the dead don’t know anything,
eng	neither do they have any more a reward;
eng	for their memory is forgotten.
eng	The labour of fools wearies every one
eng	of them; for he doesn’t know how to
eng	Truly the light is sweet,
eng	because man goes to his everlasting
eng	like Solomon’s curtains.
eng	The beams of our house are cedars.
eng	For, behold, the winter is past.
eng	I had scarcely passed from them,
eng	Your hair is as a flock of goats,
eng	The fragrance of your perfumes than all
eng	I have washed my feet. Indeed, must I
eng	His hands are like rings of gold set
eng	She is the favourite one of her who
eng	The king is held captive in its tresses.
eng	of the juice of my pomegranate.
eng	He leased out the vineyard to keepers.
eng	They haven’t been closed, neither
eng	bandaged, neither soothed with oil.
eng	Your hands are full of blood.
eng	thoroughly purge away your dross,
eng	and they shall beat their swords into
eng	For all the high mountains,
eng	For they shall eat the fruit of their
eng	instead of a robe, a wearing of
eng	I will also command the clouds that
eng	they rain no rain on it.”
eng	and wickedness as with cart rope;
eng	no one shall slumber nor sleep;
eng	Make the heart of this people fat.
eng	He shall eat butter and honey when he
eng	knows to refuse the evil, and choose
eng	They will pass through it, very
eng	distressed and hungry; and it will
eng	happen that when they are hungry, they
eng	will worry, and curse by their king and
eng	by their God. They will turn their
eng	The elder and the honourable man is the
eng	I will send him against a profane
eng	nation, and against the people who
eng	anger me will I give him a command to
eng	take the plunder and to take the prey,
eng	and to tread them down like the mire of
eng	the LORD’s Spirit will rest on him:
eng	There will be a highway for the remnant
eng	that is left of his people from
eng	Assyria, like there was for Israel in
eng	the day that he came up out of the land
eng	It will happen in the day that the LORD
eng	will give you rest from your sorrow,
eng	from your trouble, and from the hard
eng	service in which you were made to serve,
eng	In that day, people will look to their
eng	Maker, and their eyes will have respect
eng	for the Holy One of Israel.
eng	In that day the Egyptians will be like
eng	women. They will tremble and fear
eng	because of the shaking of the LORD of
eng	Armies’s hand, which he shakes over
eng	In the forest in Arabia you will lodge,
eng	you caravans of Dedanites.
eng	For it will be so within the earth
eng	amongst the peoples, as the shaking of
eng	an olive tree, as the gleanings when
eng	the vintage is done.
eng	because he trusts in you.
eng	and caused all memory of them to perish.
eng	In days to come, Jacob will take root.
eng	Israel will blossom and bud. They will
eng	fill the surface of the world with
eng	Give ear, and hear my voice! Listen,
eng	“Woe to the rebellious children”,
eng	says the LORD, “who take counsel, but
eng	not from me; and who make an alliance,
eng	but not with my Spirit, that they may
eng	For through the LORD’s voice the
eng	Assyrian will be dismayed. He will
eng	strike him with his rod.
eng	and his young men will become subject
eng	for the vintage shall fail.
eng	When you have finished destroying, you
eng	Hear, you who are far off, what I have
eng	a place of wide rivers and streams,
eng	and on the people of my curse, for
eng	Yes, the night creature  shall settle
eng	and the tongue of the mute will sing;
eng	But Rabshakeh said, “Has my master
eng	sent me only to your master and to you,
eng	to speak these words, and not to the
eng	men who sit on the wall, who will eat
eng	their own dung and drink their own
eng	Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to
eng	Hezekiah, saying, “the LORD, the God
eng	of Israel says, ‘Because you have
eng	prayed to me against Sennacherib king
eng	I will see man no more with the
eng	inhabitants of the world.
eng	Hezekiah also had said, “What is the
eng	sign that I will go up to the LORD’s
eng	nor its animals sufficient for a burnt
eng	by the greatness of his might,
eng	like the driven stubble to his bow.
eng	Those who war against you will be as
eng	Produce your cause,” says the LORD.
eng	I have put my Spirit on him.
eng	and his praise from the end of the
eng	will be turned back.
eng	“Don’t be afraid, for I have
eng	Who amongst them can declare this,
eng	and Israel, whom I have chosen.
eng	You are my witnesses.
eng	and strengthens for himself one amongst
eng	the trees of the forest.
eng	Remember these things, Jacob and Israel;
eng	and of the temple, ‘Your foundation
eng	Let the earth open, that it may produce
eng	Most certainly you are a God who has
eng	I have sworn by myself.
eng	They hire a goldsmith,
eng	“Come down, and sit in the dust,
eng	virgin daughter of Babylon.
eng	the loss of children and widowhood.
eng	and have come out of the waters of
eng	so that I don’t cut you off.
eng	the Holy One of Israel says:
eng	yet surely the justice due to me is
eng	and behold, these from the north and
eng	Thus says the Lord GOD, “Behold, I
eng	will lift up my hand to the nations,
eng	I clothe the heavens with blackness,
eng	Behold, all you who kindle a fire,
eng	and look on the earth beneath;
eng	who stretched out the heavens,
eng	They are full of the the LORD’s wrath,
eng	How beautiful on the mountains are the
eng	feet of him who brings good news,
eng	To whom has the arm of the LORD been
eng	They made his grave with the wicked,
eng	For you will forget the shame of your
eng	for it shall not come near you.
eng	Let him return to the LORD, and he will
eng	and keeps his hand from doing any
eng	They can never have enough.
eng	On a high and lofty mountain you have
eng	Why have we afflicted our soul, and you
eng	and if you pour out your soul to the
eng	For your hands are defiled with blood,
eng	Yes, we grope as those who have no eyes.
eng	According to their deeds,
eng	All from Sheba will come.
eng	You will also drink the milk of the
eng	The Lord GOD’s Spirit is on me;
eng	I will give them their reward in truth,
eng	For as a young man marries a virgin,
eng	Who this who is glorious in his
eng	and the angel of his presence saved
eng	Return for your servants’ sake,
eng	and have consumed us by means of our
eng	for I am holier than you.’
eng	but you did that which was evil in my
eng	for the child will die one hundred
eng	he who burns frankincense, as he who
eng	that you may nurse and be satisfied at
eng	the comforting breasts;
eng	It came also in the days of Jehoiakim
eng	the son of Josiah, king of Judah, to
eng	the end of the eleventh year of
eng	Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of
eng	Judah, to the carrying away of
eng	Jerusalem captive in the fifth month.
eng	how you went after me in the wilderness,
eng	and see if there has been such a thing.
eng	Yet I had planted you a noble vine,
eng	You all have transgressed against
eng	Will you not from this time cry to me,
eng	‘My Father, you are the guide of my
eng	“It will happen at that day,” says
eng	the LORD, “that the heart of the king
eng	will perish, along with the heart of
eng	the princes. The priests will be
eng	astonished, and the prophets will
eng	Shouldn’t I punish them for these
eng	things?” says the LORD.
eng	“Shouldn’t my soul be avenged on
eng	such a nation as this?
eng	the LORD of Armies says, “They will
eng	thoroughly glean the remnant of Israel
eng	like a vine. Turn again your hand as a
eng	grape gatherer into the baskets.”
eng	Men will call them rejected silver,
eng	because the LORD has rejected them.”
eng	They have built the high places of
eng	Topheth, which is in the valley of the
eng	son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and
eng	their daughters in the fire; which I
eng	didn’t command, nor did it come into
eng	“Peace, peace,” when there is no
eng	Behold, the voice of the cry of the
eng	daughter of my people from a land that
eng	and don’t trust in any brother;
eng	Therefore the LORD of Armies, the God
eng	of Israel, says, “Behold, I will feed
eng	them, even this people, with wormwood,
eng	and give them water of gall to drink.
eng	that he has understanding, and knows me,
eng	there is no one like you.
eng	and Israel is the tribe of his
eng	for they have devoured Jacob.
eng	and let us cut him off from the land of
eng	Though in a land of peace you are
eng	You will be ashamed of your fruits,
eng	My eye will weep bitterly,
eng	and trusted in falsehood.”
eng	work for your name’s sake, LORD;
eng	If I enter into the city,
eng	You have rejected me,” says the LORD.
eng	for a fire is kindled in my anger,
eng	“I will deliver you out of the hand
eng	“The sin of Judah is written with a
eng	“I, the LORD, search the mind.
eng	and destroy them with double
eng	in the ancient paths,
eng	and go out to the valley of the son of
eng	Hinnom, which is by the entry of the
eng	gate Harsith, and proclaim there the
eng	words that I will tell you.
eng	and I am weary with holding it in,
eng	because he didn’t kill me from the
eng	the LORD says: “Execute justice and
eng	righteousness, and deliver him who is
eng	robbed out of the hand of the
eng	oppressor. Do no wrong. Do no violence
eng	to the foreigner, the fatherless, or
eng	the widow. Don’t shed innocent blood
eng	and do justice and righteousness?
eng	“As I live,” says the LORD,
eng	“though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim
eng	king of Judah were the signet on my
eng	right hand, yet would I pluck you from
eng	My heart within me is broken.
eng	the LORD of Armies says,
eng	They intend to cause my people to
eng	forget my name by their dreams which
eng	they each tell his neighbour, as their
eng	fathers forgot my name because of Baal.
eng	“Yet you have not listened to me,”
eng	says the LORD; “that you may provoke
eng	me to anger with the work of your hands
eng	He will enter into judgement with all
eng	Then Jeremiah spoke to all the princes
eng	and to all the people, saying, “the
eng	LORD sent me to prophesy against this
eng	house and against this city all the
eng	words that you have heard.
eng	Also I spoke to the priests and to all
eng	this people, saying, the LORD says,
eng	“Don’t listen to the words of your
eng	prophets who prophesy to you, saying,
eng	‘Behold, the vessels of the LORD’s
eng	house will now shortly be brought again
eng	from Babylon;’ for they prophesy a
eng	For the LORD of Armies, the God of
eng	Israel says: “Don’t let your
eng	prophets who are amongst you and your
eng	diviners deceive you. Don’t listen to
eng	your dreams which you cause to be
eng	a voice of fear, and not of peace.
eng	All your lovers have forgotten you.
eng	and their congregation will be
eng	established before me.
eng	and shout for the chief of the nations.
eng	I will satiate the soul of the priests
eng	I will surely have mercy on him,”
eng	I will be their God,
eng	So I took the deed of the purchase,
eng	both that which was sealed, containing
eng	the terms and conditions, and that
eng	For the LORD says: “Just as I have
eng	brought all this great evil on this
eng	people, so will I bring on them all the
eng	good that I have promised them.
eng	“Don’t consider what this people
eng	has spoken, saying, ‘Has the LORD
eng	cast off the two families which he
eng	chose?’ Thus they despise my people,
eng	that they should be no more a nation
eng	You shall not build a house, sow seed,
eng	plant a vineyard, or have any; but all
eng	your days you shall dwell in tents,
eng	that you may live many days in the land
eng	in which you live as nomads.’
eng	They asked Baruch, saying, “Tell us
eng	now, how did you write all these words
eng	The princes were angry with Jeremiah,
eng	and struck him, and put him in prison
eng	in the house of Jonathan the scribe;
eng	for they had made that the prison.
eng	“Your familiar friends have turned on
eng	Now, behold, I release you today from
eng	the chains which are on your hand. If
eng	it seems good to you to come with me
eng	into Babylon, come, and I will take
eng	care of you; but if it seems bad to you
eng	to come with me into Babylon, don’t.
eng	Behold, all the land is before you.
eng	Where it seems good and right to you to
eng	Then Johanan the son of Kareah and all
eng	the captains of the forces who were
eng	with him took all the remnant of the
eng	people whom he had recovered from
eng	Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, from
eng	Mizpah, after he had killed Gedaliah
eng	the son of Ahikam, the men of war, with
eng	the women, the children, and the
eng	eunuchs, whom he had brought back from
eng	and they came into the land of Egypt;
eng	for they didn’t obey the LORD’s
eng	voice: and they came to Tahpanhes.
eng	the LORD of Armies, the God of Israel,
eng	says, ‘You and your wives have both
eng	spoken with your mouths, and with your
eng	hands have fulfilled it, saying, “We
eng	will surely perform our vows that we
eng	have vowed, to burn incense to the
eng	queen of the sky, and to pour out drink
eng	“Who is this who rises up like the
eng	They didn’t stand, because the LORD
eng	because they are more than the locusts,
eng	for feebleness of hands;
eng	Her little ones have caused a cry to be
eng	as the house of Israel was ashamed of
eng	Bethel, their confidence.
eng	The horn of Moab is cut off,
eng	From the cry of Heshbon even to Elealeh,
eng	inhabitant of Moab,” says the LORD.
eng	Clothe yourself in sackcloth.
eng	Who is the shepherd who will stand
eng	and destroy the children of the east.
eng	and before those who seek their life.
eng	My people have been lost sheep.
eng	but she will be wholly desolate.
eng	“the iniquity of Israel will be
eng	Listen to those who flee and escape out
eng	of the land of Babylon,
eng	and on her wise men.
eng	against you, daughter of Babylon.
eng	Utterly destroy all her army!
eng	for it is the vengeance of the LORD,
eng	including the tribe of his inheritance:
eng	Blow the trumpet amongst the nations!
eng	May the violence done to me and to my
eng	flesh be on Babylon!”
eng	I will execute judgement on Bel in
eng	and through all her land the wounded
eng	It will be, when you have finished
eng	reading this book, that you shall bind
eng	a stone to it, and cast it into the
eng	middle of the Euphrates.
eng	So Judah was carried away captive out
eng	Her virgins are afflicted,
eng	They have given their pleasant things
eng	for food to refresh their soul.
eng	for I have rebelled against his
eng	He has profaned the kingdom and its
eng	Her king and her princes are amongst
eng	the nations where the law is not.
eng	They hiss and gnash their teeth.
eng	My enemy has consumed those whom I have
eng	cared for and brought up.
eng	He has also broken my teeth with gravel.
eng	yet he will have compassion according
eng	to the multitude of his loving
eng	until the LORD looks down,
eng	You will give them hardness of heart,
eng	They hunt our steps,
eng	We are weary, and have no rest.
eng	Turn us to yourself, LORD, and we will
eng	As the appearance of the rainbow that
eng	is in the cloud in the day of rain, so
eng	was the appearance of the brightness
eng	Yet if you warn the wicked, and he
eng	doesn’t turn from his wickedness, nor
eng	from his wicked way, he will die in his
eng	iniquity; but you have delivered your
eng	She has rebelled against my ordinances
eng	in doing wickedness more than the
eng	nations, and against my statutes more
eng	than the countries that are around her;
eng	for they have rejected my ordinances,
eng	and as for my statutes, they have not
eng	An end has come. The end has come! It
eng	awakes against you. Behold, it comes.
eng	When I had dug in the wall, I saw a
eng	The cherub stretched out his hand from
eng	between the cherubim to the fire that
eng	was between the cherubim, and took some
eng	of it, and put it into the hands of him
eng	who was clothed in linen, who took it
eng	“Therefore say, ‘Thus says the Lord
eng	GOD: “Whereas I have removed them far
eng	off amongst the nations, and whereas I
eng	have scattered them amongst the
eng	countries, yet I will be to them a
eng	sanctuary for a little while in the
eng	countries where they have come.”’
eng	the LORD’s word came to me, saying,
eng	Then some of the elders of Israel came
eng	to me, and sat before me.
eng	Again the LORD’s word came to me,
eng	“‘“A wife who commits adultery!
eng	Who takes strangers instead of her
eng	that you may remember, and be
eng	confounded, and never open your mouth
eng	any more, because of your shame, when I
eng	have forgiven you all that you have
eng	done,” says the Lord GOD.’”
eng	Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul
eng	of the father, so also the soul of the
eng	son is mine. The soul who sins, he
eng	and has taken increase from the poor;
eng	“Moreover, take up a lamentation for
eng	the princes of Israel,
eng	They brought him into strongholds,
eng	Moreover also I gave them my Sabbaths,
eng	to be a sign between me and them, that
eng	they might know that I am the LORD who
eng	There you will remember your ways, and
eng	all your deeds in which you have
eng	polluted yourselves. Then you will
eng	loathe yourselves in your own sight for
eng	all your evils that you have committed.
eng	They are delivered over to the sword
eng	I will overturn, overturn, overturn it.
eng	This also will be no more, until he
eng	comes whose right it is; and I will
eng	One has committed abomination with his
eng	neighbour’s wife; and another has
eng	lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law.
eng	Another in you has humbled his sister,
eng	his father’s daughter.
eng	“Her sister Oholibah saw this, yet
eng	she was more corrupt in her lusting
eng	than she, and in her prostitution which
eng	was more depraved than the prostitution
eng	and will tear your breasts;
eng	“‘Therefore thus says the Lord GOD:
eng	Also the LORD’s word came to me,
eng	“Son of man, because Tyre has said
eng	against Jerusalem, ‘Aha! She is
eng	broken! She who was the gateway of the
eng	peoples has been returned to me. I will
eng	be replenished, now that she is laid
eng	‘I am perfect in beauty.’
eng	“‘“Damascus was your merchant for
eng	the multitude of your handiworks, by
eng	reason of the multitude of all kinds of
eng	riches, with the wine of Helbon, and
eng	They will wallow in the ashes.
eng	though you set your heart as the heart
eng	ruby, topaz, emerald,
eng	the LORD’s word came to me, saying,
eng	I have given you for food to the
eng	animals of the earth
eng	“‘“Ethiopia, Put, Lud, all the
eng	mixed people, Cub, and the children of
eng	the land that is allied with them, will
eng	fall with them by the sword.”
eng	I will make Pathros desolate,
eng	and with a forest-like shade,
eng	I made the nations to shake at the
eng	sound of his fall, when I cast him down
eng	to Sheol  with those who descend into
eng	the pit. All the trees of Eden, the
eng	choice and best of Lebanon, all that
eng	drink water, were comforted in the
eng	lower parts of the earth.
eng	into the countries which you have not
eng	whose graves are set in the uttermost
eng	parts of the pit, and her company is
eng	around her grave; all of them slain,
eng	fallen by the sword, who caused terror
eng	in the land of the living.
eng	Now the LORD’s hand had been on me in
eng	the evening, before he who had escaped
eng	came; and he had opened my mouth, until
eng	he came to me in the morning; and my
eng	mouth was opened, and I was no longer
eng	“Therefore thus says the Lord GOD to
eng	them: ‘Behold, I, even I, will judge
eng	between the fat sheep and the lean
eng	therefore thus says the Lord GOD:
eng	“Surely in the fire of my jealousy I
eng	have spoken against the residue of the
eng	nations, and against all Edom, that
eng	have appointed my land to themselves
eng	for a possession with the joy of all
eng	their heart, with despite of soul, to
eng	cast it out for a prey.”’
eng	Then the nations that are left around
eng	you will know that I, the LORD, have
eng	built the ruined places, and planted
eng	that which was desolate. I, the LORD,
eng	have spoken it, and I will do it.”
eng	The nations will know that I am the
eng	LORD who sanctifies Israel, when my
eng	sanctuary is amongst them forever
eng	Behold, it comes, and it will be
eng	done,” says the Lord GOD. “This is
eng	the day about which I have spoken.
eng	He measured the width of the opening of
eng	the gate, ten cubits; and the length of
eng	the gate, thirteen cubits;
eng	There were four tables for the burnt
eng	offering, of cut stone, a cubit and a
eng	half long, and a cubit and a half wide,
eng	and one cubit high. They laid the
eng	instruments with which they killed the
eng	burnt offering and the sacrifice on
eng	The doors had two leaves each, two
eng	turning leaves: two for the one door,
eng	and two leaves for the other.
eng	Now let them put away their
eng	prostitution, and the dead bodies of
eng	their kings, far from me. Then I will
eng	dwell amongst them forever.
eng	They shall not come near to me, to
eng	execute the office of priest to me, nor
eng	to come near to any of my holy things,
eng	to the things that are most holy; but
eng	they will bear their shame, and their
eng	abominations which they have committed.
eng	“‘“This is the offering that you
eng	shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah
eng	from a homer of wheat; and you shall
eng	give the sixth part of an ephah from a
eng	Moreover the prince shall not take of
eng	the people’s inheritance, to thrust
eng	them out of their possession. He shall
eng	give inheritance to his sons out of his
eng	own possession, that my people not each
eng	be scattered from his
eng	It shall happen, that in whatever tribe
eng	the stranger lives, there you shall
eng	give him his inheritance,” says the
eng	and the gates of the city shall be
eng	named after the tribes of Israel, three
eng	gates northward: the gate of Reuben,
eng	one; the gate of Judah, one; the gate
eng	But if you show the dream and its
eng	interpretation, you will receive of me
eng	gifts and rewards and great honour.
eng	Therefore show me the dream and its
eng	The king answered Daniel, whose name
eng	was Belteshazzar, “Are you able to
eng	make known to me the dream which I have
eng	seen, and its interpretation?”
eng	Therefore at that time certain
eng	Chaldeans came near, and brought
eng	accusation against the Jews.
eng	His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom.
eng	You shall be driven from men; and your
eng	dwelling shall be with the animals of
eng	the field. You shall be made to eat
eng	grass as oxen. Seven times shall pass
eng	over you, until you know that the Most
eng	High rules in the kingdom of men, and
eng	gives it to whomever he will.’”
eng	But when his heart was lifted up, and
eng	his spirit was hardened so that he
eng	dealt proudly, he was deposed from his
eng	kingly throne, and they took his glory
eng	Then the king went to his palace, and
eng	passed the night fasting. No musical
eng	instruments were brought before him;
eng	and his sleep fled from him.
eng	and its wheels burning fire.
eng	I saw him come close to the ram, and he
eng	was moved with anger against him, and
eng	struck the ram, and broke his two
eng	horns. There was no power in the ram to
eng	stand before him; but he cast him down
eng	to the ground, and trampled on him.
eng	There was no one who could deliver the
eng	ram out of his hand.
eng	To the Lord our God belong mercies and
eng	forgiveness; for we have rebelled
eng	Then he said to me, “Don’t be
eng	afraid, Daniel; for from the first day
eng	that you set your heart to understand,
eng	and to humble yourself before your God,
eng	your words were heard. I have come for
eng	“In his place a contemptible person
eng	will stand up, to whom they had not
eng	given the honour of the kingdom; but he
eng	will come in time of security, and will
eng	obtain the kingdom by flatteries.
eng	I heard the man clothed in linen, who
eng	was above the waters of the river, when
eng	he held up his right hand and his left
eng	hand to heaven, and swore by him who
eng	lives forever that it will be for a
eng	time, times, and a half; and when they
eng	have finished breaking in pieces the
eng	power of the holy people, all these
eng	things will be finished.
eng	Indeed, on her children I will have no
eng	to which she burnt incense,
eng	I will sow her to me in the earth;
eng	As they were multiplied, so they sinned
eng	Then how will the LORD feed them like a
eng	Now the new moon will devour them with
eng	and he will bind up our wounds.
eng	then the iniquity of Ephraim is
eng	nor sought him, for all this.
eng	They have made princes, and I didn’t
eng	They will return to Egypt.
eng	and because your hostility is great.
eng	and they will be wanderers amongst the
eng	so I will put a yoke on her beautiful
eng	but the Assyrian will be their king,
eng	They make a covenant with Assyria,
eng	and Israel served to get a wife,
eng	There I will devour them like a lioness.
eng	Tell him, “Forgive all our sins,
eng	And listen, all you inhabitants of the
eng	the pomegranate tree, the palm tree
eng	also, and the apple tree,
eng	Let all the inhabitants of the land
eng	They climb up into the houses.
eng	and let them say, “Spare your people,
eng	and the vats will overflow with new
eng	and I will execute judgement on them
eng	there for my people,
eng	Cause your mighty ones to come down
eng	But Judah will be inhabited forever,
eng	and I will turn my hand against Ekron;
eng	and he was strong as the oaks;
eng	Can a bird fall in a trap on the earth,
eng	“For in the day that I visit the
eng	transgressions of Israel on him,
eng	So two or three cities staggered to one
eng	city to drink water,
eng	and that which went out one hundred
eng	shall have ten left to the house of
eng	neither will I regard the peace
eng	offerings of your fat animals.
eng	“I abhor the pride of Jacob,
eng	but don’t prophesy again any more at
eng	Bethel; for it is the king’s
eng	sanctuary, and it is a royal house!”
eng	and I will darken the earth in the
eng	All the sinners of my people will die
eng	by the sword, who say, ‘Evil won’t
eng	overtake nor meet us.’
eng	For as you have drunk on my holy
eng	mountain, so will all the nations drink
eng	continually. Yes, they will drink,
eng	swallow down, and will be as though
eng	The flood was all around me.
eng	The LORD said, “Is it right for you
eng	and all her temple gifts will be burnt
eng	Woe to those who devise iniquity
eng	Yes, he will hide his face from them at
eng	it will happen that the mountain of the
eng	LORD’s temple will be established on
eng	the top of the mountains,
eng	the kingdom of the daughter of
eng	whose goings out are from of old, from
eng	I will cut off the cities of your land,
eng	With tens of thousands of rivers of oil?
eng	And you will bear the reproach of my
eng	When I sit in darkness, the LORD will
eng	They will come with fear to the LORD
eng	He summons his picked troops. They
eng	stumble on their way. They dash to its
eng	wall, and the protective shield is put
eng	Therefore the law is paralysed, and
eng	justice never prevails; for the wicked
eng	surround the righteous; therefore
eng	justice comes out perverted.
eng	“What value does the engraved image
eng	have, that its maker has engraved it;
eng	the molten image, even the teacher of
eng	lies, that he who fashions its form
eng	trusts in it, to make mute idols?
eng	You called for your sworn arrows.
eng	and there is no herd in the stalls:
eng	The coast will be for the remnant of
eng	the house of Judah. They will find
eng	pasture. In the houses of Ashkelon,
eng	they will lie down in the evening, for
eng	the LORD, their God,  will visit them,
eng	Then the LORD’s word came by Haggai,
eng	the prophet, saying,
eng	I struck you with blight, mildew, and
eng	hail in all the work of your hands; yet
eng	you didn’t turn to me,’ says the
eng	He said, “These are the horns which
eng	scattered Judah, so that no man lifted
eng	up his head; but these have come to
eng	terrify them, to cast down the horns of
eng	the nations, which lifted up their horn
eng	against the land of Judah to scatter
eng	I said, “No, my lord.”
eng	The strong went out, and sought to go
eng	that they might walk back and forth
eng	through the earth: and he said, “Go
eng	around and through the earth!” So
eng	they walked back and forth through the
eng	the LORD of Armies says: “Let your
eng	hands be strong, you who hear in these
eng	days these words from the mouth of the
eng	prophets who were in the day that the
eng	foundation of the house of the LORD of
eng	Armies was laid, even the temple, that
eng	and the king will perish from Gaza,
eng	I have filled the bow with Ephraim;
eng	For the LORD of Armies has visited his
eng	flock, the house of Judah,
eng	and will strike the waves in the sea,
eng	It will happen in that day, that I will
eng	make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for
eng	all the peoples. All who burden
eng	themselves with it will be severely
eng	wounded, and all the nations of the
eng	earth will be gathered together against
eng	Behold, a day of the LORD comes, when
eng	your plunder will be divided within you.
eng	“Now, please entreat the favour of
eng	God,  that he may be gracious to us.
eng	With this, will he accept any of
eng	you?” says the LORD of Armies.
eng	You are cursed with the curse; for you
eng	rob me, even this whole nation.
eng	Jacob became the father of Joseph, the
eng	husband of Mary, from whom was born
eng	Jesus,  who is called Christ.
eng	Then Herod, when he saw that he was
eng	mocked by the wise men, was exceedingly
eng	angry, and sent out, and killed all the
eng	male children who were in Bethlehem and
eng	in all the surrounding countryside,
eng	from two years old and under, according
eng	to the exact time which he had learnt
eng	Behold, a voice out of the heavens
eng	said, “This is my beloved Son, with
eng	whom I am well pleased.”
eng	The report about him went out into all
eng	Syria. They brought to him all who were
eng	sick, afflicted with various diseases
eng	and torments, possessed with demons,
eng	epileptics, and paralytics; and he
eng	But I tell you, that everyone who is
eng	angry with his brother without a cause
eng	will be in danger of the judgement;
eng	and whoever says to his brother,
eng	“When you pray, you shall not be as
eng	the hypocrites, for they love to stand
eng	and pray in the synagogues and in the
eng	corners of the streets, that they may
eng	be seen by men. Most certainly, I tell
eng	you, they have received their reward.
eng	For with whatever judgement you judge,
eng	you will be judged; and with whatever
eng	measure you measure, it will be
eng	Jesus said to him, “See that you tell
eng	nobody, but go, show yourself to the
eng	priest, and offer the gift that Moses
eng	commanded, as a testimony to them.”
eng	Those who fed them fled, and went away
eng	into the city, and told everything,
eng	including what happened to those who
eng	were possessed with demons.
eng	They told him, “Yes, Lord.”
eng	“Brother will deliver up brother to
eng	death, and the father his child.
eng	Children will rise up against parents,
eng	and cause them to be put to death.
eng	For this is he, of whom it is written,
eng	‘Behold, I send my messenger before
eng	your face, who will prepare your way
eng	And behold there was a man with a
eng	withered hand. They asked him, “Is it
eng	lawful to heal on the Sabbath day?”
eng	that they might accuse him.
eng	The good man out of his good treasure
eng	brings out good things, and the evil
eng	man out of his evil treasure  brings
eng	and will in no way understand;
eng	that it might be fulfilled which was
eng	spoken through the prophet, saying,
eng	For John said to him, “It is not
eng	lawful for you to have her.”
eng	Those who were in the boat came and
eng	worshipped him, saying, “You are
eng	truly the Son of God!”
eng	But she came and worshipped him,
eng	saying, “Lord, help me.”
eng	He said to them, “But who do you say
eng	Jesus rebuked him, the demon went out
eng	of him, and the boy was cured from that
eng	Again, assuredly I tell you, that if
eng	two of you will agree on earth
eng	concerning anything that they will ask,
eng	it will be done for them by my Father
eng	He laid his hands on them, and departed
eng	Take that which is yours, and go your
eng	way. It is my desire to give to this
eng	last just as much as to you.
eng	The disciples went, and did just as
eng	Jesus commanded them,
eng	They said to him, “The first.”
eng	But when the king came in to see the
eng	guests, he saw there a man who didn’t
eng	have on wedding clothing,
eng	The whole law and the prophets depend
eng	on these two commandments.”
eng	He who swears by heaven, swears by the
eng	throne of God, and by him who sits on
eng	This Good News of the Kingdom will be
eng	preached in the whole world for a
eng	testimony to all the nations, and then
eng	But know this, that if the master of
eng	the house had known in what watch of
eng	the night the thief was coming, he
eng	would have watched, and would not have
eng	allowed his house to be broken into.
eng	“His lord said to him, ‘Well done,
eng	good and faithful servant. You have
eng	been faithful over a few things, I will
eng	set you over many things. Enter into
eng	the joy of your lord.’
eng	But when his disciples saw this, they
eng	were indignant, saying, “Why this
eng	Then he said to them, “My soul is
eng	exceedingly sorrowful, even to death.
eng	Stay here, and watch with me.”
eng	Then they spit in his face and beat him
eng	with their fists, and some slapped him,
eng	They had then a notable prisoner,
eng	The robbers also who were crucified
eng	with him cast on him the same reproach.
eng	As they went to tell his disciples,
eng	behold, Jesus met them, saying,
eng	Now after John was taken into custody,
eng	Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the
eng	Good News of God’s Kingdom,
eng	But he went out, and began to proclaim
eng	it much, and to spread about the
eng	matter, so that Jesus could no more
eng	openly enter into a city, but was
eng	outside in desert places: and they came
eng	to him from everywhere.
eng	He said to the man who had his hand
eng	withered, “Stand up.”
eng	He answered them, “Who are my mother
eng	For the earth bears fruit: first the
eng	blade, then the ear, then the full
eng	Those who saw it declared to them what
eng	happened to him who was possessed by
eng	demons, and about the pigs.
eng	Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not
eng	without honour, except in his own
eng	country, and amongst his own relatives,
eng	and in his own house.”
eng	They  saw them going, and many
eng	recognised him and ran there on foot
eng	from all the cities. They arrived
eng	before them and came together to him.
eng	He answered them, “Well did Isaiah
eng	prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is
eng	Immediately his ears were opened, and
eng	the impediment of his tongue was
eng	released, and he spoke clearly.
eng	Then again he laid his hands on his
eng	eyes. He looked intently, and was
eng	restored, and saw everyone clearly.
eng	One of the multitude answered,
eng	“Teacher, I brought to you my son,
eng	who has a mute spirit;
eng	If your eye causes you to stumble, cast
eng	it out. It is better for you to enter
eng	into God’s Kingdom with one eye,
eng	rather than having two eyes to be cast
eng	into the Gehenna  of fire,
eng	Peter began to tell him, “Behold, we
eng	have left all, and have followed you.”
eng	They went away, and found a young
eng	donkey tied at the door outside in the
eng	open street, and they untied him.
eng	Jesus said to them, “Neither do I
eng	tell you by what authority I do these
eng	Jesus answered them, “Isn’t this
eng	because you are mistaken, not knowing
eng	the Scriptures, nor the power of God?
eng	For many will come in my name, saying,
eng	‘I am he!’  and will lead many
eng	lest coming suddenly he might find you
eng	But Peter said to him, “Although all
eng	will be offended, yet I will not.”
eng	The high priest stood up in the middle,
eng	and asked Jesus, “Have you no answer?
eng	What is it which these testify against
eng	They clothed him with purple, and
eng	weaving a crown of thorns, they put it
eng	When the Sabbath was past, Mary
eng	Magdalene, and Mary the mother of
eng	James, and Salome, bought spices, that
eng	they might come and anoint him.
eng	Zacharias was troubled when he saw him,
eng	and fear fell upon him.
eng	She called out with a loud voice, and
eng	said, “Blessed are you amongst women,
eng	and blessed is the fruit of your womb!
eng	Fear came on all who lived around them,
eng	and all these sayings were talked about
eng	throughout all the hill country of
eng	The angel said to them, “Don’t be
eng	afraid, for behold, I bring you good
eng	news of great joy which will be to all
eng	Coming up at that very hour, she gave
eng	thanks to the Lord, and spoke of him to
eng	all those who were looking for
eng	redemption in Jerusalem.
eng	He answered them, “He who has two
eng	coats, let him give to him who has
eng	none. He who has food, let him do
eng	The devil said to him, “If you are
eng	the Son of God, command this stone to
eng	Elijah was sent to none of them, except
eng	to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to
eng	a woman who was a widow.
eng	While he was in one of the cities,
eng	behold, there was a man full of
eng	leprosy. When he saw Jesus, he fell on
eng	his face, and begged him, saying,
eng	“Lord, if you want to, you can make
eng	Jesus, answering them, said,
eng	“Haven’t you read what David did
eng	when he was hungry, he, and those who
eng	for you will mourn and weep.
eng	He is like a man building a house, who
eng	dug and went deep, and laid a
eng	foundation on the rock. When a flood
eng	arose, the stream broke against that
eng	house, and could not shake it, because
eng	it was founded on the rock.
eng	“For I tell you, amongst those who
eng	are born of women there is not a
eng	greater prophet than John the Baptiser,
eng	yet he who is least in God’s Kingdom
eng	is greater than he.”
eng	Other fell amid the thorns, and the
eng	thorns grew with it, and choked it.
eng	All the people of the surrounding
eng	country of the Gadarenes asked him to
eng	depart from them, for they were very
eng	much afraid. He entered into the boat,
eng	But the multitudes, perceiving it,
eng	followed him. He welcomed them, and
eng	spoke to them of God’s Kingdom, and
eng	he cured those who needed healing.
eng	Behold, a spirit takes him, he suddenly
eng	cries out, and it convulses him so that
eng	he foams, and it hardly departs from
eng	him, bruising him severely.
eng	Into whatever house you enter, first
eng	say, ‘Peace be to this house.’
eng	Now which of these three do you think
eng	seemed to be a neighbour to him who
eng	fell amongst the robbers?”
eng	But he, knowing their thoughts, said to
eng	them, “Every kingdom divided against
eng	itself is brought to desolation. A
eng	house divided against itself falls.
eng	So you testify and consent to the works
eng	of your fathers. For they killed them,
eng	and you build their tombs.
eng	Which of you by being anxious can add a
eng	cubit  to his height?
eng	You hypocrites! You know how to
eng	interpret the appearance of the earth
eng	and the sky, but how is it that you
eng	don’t interpret this time?
eng	Then you will begin to say, ‘We ate
eng	and drank in your presence, and you
eng	taught in our streets.’
eng	“Another said, ‘I have married a
eng	wife, and therefore I can’t come.’
eng	He went and joined himself to one of
eng	the citizens of that country, and he
eng	sent him into his fields to feed pigs.
eng	The Pharisees, who were lovers of
eng	money, also heard all these things, and
eng	they scoffed at him.
eng	When he saw them, he said to them,
eng	“Go and show yourselves to the
eng	priests.” As they went, they were
eng	I tell you that he will avenge them
eng	quickly. Nevertheless, when the Son of
eng	Man comes, will he find faith on the
eng	Those who led the way rebuked him, that
eng	he should be quiet; but he cried out
eng	all the more, “You son of David, have
eng	“They said to him, ‘Lord, he has
eng	They reasoned with themselves, saying,
eng	“If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he
eng	will say, ‘Why didn’t you believe
eng	The third took her, and likewise the
eng	seven all left no children, and died.
eng	It will turn out as a testimony for you.
eng	He consented, and sought an opportunity
eng	to deliver him to them in the absence
eng	Then he said to them, “But now,
eng	whoever has a purse, let him take it,
eng	and likewise a wallet. Whoever has
eng	none, let him sell his cloak, and buy a
eng	They spoke many other things against
eng	He said to them the third time, “Why?
eng	What evil has this man done? I have
eng	found no capital crime in him. I will
eng	therefore chastise him and release
eng	this man went to Pilate, and asked for
eng	He said to them, “Foolish men, and
eng	slow of heart to believe in all that
eng	the prophets have spoken!
eng	The same was in the beginning with God.
eng	The next day, he saw Jesus coming to
eng	him, and said, “Behold,  the Lamb of
eng	God, who takes away the sin of the
eng	His mother said to the servants,
eng	“Whatever he says to you, do it.”
eng	Jesus answered him, “Are you the
eng	teacher of Israel, and don’t
eng	understand these things?
eng	So he came to a city of Samaria, called
eng	Sychar, near the parcel of ground that
eng	Jacob gave to his son, Joseph.
eng	Don’t you say, ‘There are yet four
eng	months until the harvest?’ Behold, I
eng	tell you, lift up your eyes, and look
eng	at the fields, that they are white for
eng	He answered them, “He who made me
eng	well, the same said to me, ‘Take up
eng	your mat, and walk.’”
eng	But I know you, that you don’t have
eng	God’s love in yourselves.
eng	When they found him on the other side
eng	of the sea, they asked him, “Rabbi,
eng	when did you come here?”
eng	He who eats my flesh and drinks my
eng	blood lives in me, and I in him.
eng	Jesus therefore answered them, “My
eng	teaching is not mine, but his who sent
eng	The Pharisees therefore answered them,
eng	“You aren’t also led astray, are
eng	The Jews therefore said, “Will he
eng	kill himself, because he says, ‘Where
eng	I am going, you can’t come’?”
eng	But I don’t seek my own glory. There
eng	is one who seeks and judges.
eng	and asked them, “Is this your son,
eng	whom you say was born blind? How then
eng	I am the door. If anyone enters in by
eng	me, he will be saved, and will go in
eng	and go out, and will find pasture.
eng	They sought again to seize him, and he
eng	went out of their hand.
eng	When she had said this, she went away,
eng	and called Mary, her sister, secretly,
eng	saying, “The Teacher is here, and is
eng	Then they sought for Jesus and spoke
eng	one with another, as they stood in the
eng	temple, “What do you think—that he
eng	isn’t coming to the feast at all?”
eng	The multitude therefore, who stood by
eng	and heard it, said that it had
eng	thundered. Others said, “An angel has
eng	arose from supper, and laid aside his
eng	outer garments. He took a towel, and
eng	wrapped a towel around his waist.
eng	Little children, I will be with you a
eng	little while longer. You will seek me,
eng	and as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I
eng	am going, you can’t come,’ so now I
eng	He who doesn’t love me doesn’t keep
eng	my words. The word which you hear
eng	isn’t mine, but the Father’s who
eng	If I hadn’t done amongst them the
eng	works which no one else did, they
eng	wouldn’t have had sin. But now have
eng	they seen and also hated both me and my
eng	I came from the Father, and have come
eng	into the world. Again, I leave the
eng	world, and go to the Father.”
eng	I made known to them your name, and
eng	will make it known; that the love with
eng	which you loved me may be in them, and
eng	One of the servants of the high priest,
eng	being a relative of him whose ear Peter
eng	had cut off, said, “Didn’t I see
eng	you in the garden with him?”
eng	When Pilate therefore heard these
eng	words, he brought Jesus out, and sat
eng	down on the judgement seat at a place
eng	called “The Pavement”, but in
eng	After these things, Joseph of
eng	Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus,
eng	but secretly for fear of the Jews,
eng	asked of Pilate that he might take away
eng	Jesus’ body. Pilate gave him
eng	permission. He came therefore and took
eng	But Thomas, one of the twelve, called
eng	Didymus, wasn’t with them when Jesus
eng	He said to him again a second time,
eng	“Simon, son of Jonah, do you love
eng	Now this man obtained a field with the
eng	reward for his wickedness, and falling
eng	headlong, his body burst open, and all
eng	his intestines gushed out.
eng	Your sons and your daughters will
eng	“Let all the house of Israel
eng	therefore know certainly that God has
eng	made him both Lord and Christ, this
eng	Jesus whom you crucified.”
eng	and that he may send Christ Jesus, who
eng	was ordained for you before,
eng	who by the mouth of your servant,
eng	More believers were added to the Lord,
eng	multitudes of both men and women.
eng	Therefore select from amongst you,
eng	brothers, seven men of good report,
eng	full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom,
eng	whom we may appoint over this business.
eng	The same took advantage of our race,
eng	and mistreated our fathers, and forced
eng	them to throw out their babies, so that
eng	they wouldn’t stay alive.
eng	which also our fathers, in their turn,
eng	brought in with Joshua when they
eng	entered into the possession of the
eng	nations, whom God drove out before the
eng	face of our fathers, to the days of
eng	Simon himself also believed. Being
eng	baptised, he continued with Philip.
eng	Seeing signs and great miracles
eng	occurring, he was amazed.
eng	But Philip was found at Azotus. Passing
eng	through, he preached the Good News to
eng	all the cities, until he came to
eng	A voice came to him again the second
eng	time, “What God has cleansed, you
eng	must not call unclean.”
eng	They of the circumcision who believed
eng	were amazed, as many as came with
eng	Peter, because the gift of the Holy
eng	Spirit was also poured out on the
eng	Now in these days, prophets came down
eng	from Jerusalem to Antioch.
eng	Then, when they had fasted and prayed
eng	and laid their hands on them, they sent
eng	that God has fulfilled the same to us,
eng	their children, in that he raised up
eng	Jesus. As it is also written in the
eng	they became aware of it, and fled to
eng	the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra, Derbe,
eng	and the surrounding region.
eng	He made no distinction between us and
eng	them, cleansing their hearts by faith.
eng	After they had spent some time there,
eng	they were sent back with greetings from
eng	the brothers to the apostles.
eng	When they had laid many stripes on
eng	them, they threw them into prison,
eng	charging the jailer to keep them safely,
eng	But when the Jews of Thessalonica had
eng	knowledge that the word of God was
eng	proclaimed by Paul at Beroea also, they
eng	came there likewise, agitating the
eng	Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue,
eng	believed in the Lord with all his
eng	house. Many of the Corinthians, when
eng	they heard, believed and were baptised.
eng	He entered into the synagogue, and
eng	spoke boldly for a period of three
eng	months, reasoning and persuading about
eng	the things concerning God’s Kingdom.
eng	But if you seek anything about other
eng	matters, it will be settled in the
eng	For I know that after my departure,
eng	vicious wolves will enter in amongst
eng	you, not sparing the flock.
eng	They have been informed about you, that
eng	you teach all the Jews who are amongst
eng	the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling
eng	them not to circumcise their children
eng	neither to walk after the customs.
eng	When I couldn’t see for the glory of
eng	that light, being led by the hand of
eng	those who were with me, I came into
eng	When a great arguement arose, the
eng	commanding officer, fearing that Paul
eng	would be torn in pieces by them,
eng	commanded the soldiers to go down and
eng	take him by force from amongst them,
eng	and bring him into the barracks.
eng	He even tried to profane the temple,
eng	and we arrested him.
eng	For if I have done wrong, and have
eng	committed anything worthy of death, I
eng	don’t refuse to die; but if none of
eng	those things is true that they accuse
eng	me of, no one can give me up to them. I
eng	When we had all fallen to the earth, I
eng	heard a voice saying to me in the
eng	Hebrew language, ‘Saul, Saul, why are
eng	you persecuting me? It is hard for you
eng	to kick against the goads.’
eng	Because the haven was not suitable to
eng	winter in, the majority advised going
eng	to sea from there, if by any means they
eng	could reach Phoenix, and winter there,
eng	which is a port of Crete, looking
eng	northeast and southeast.
eng	But the centurion, desiring to save
eng	Paul, stopped them from their purpose,
eng	and commanded that those who could swim
eng	should throw themselves overboard first
eng	to go towards the land;
eng	In seeing, you will see,
eng	For the wrath of God is revealed from
eng	heaven against all ungodliness and
eng	unrighteousness of men, who suppress
eng	the truth in unrighteousness,
eng	Indeed you bear the name of a Jew, and
eng	rest on the law, and glory in God,
eng	They have together become unprofitable.
eng	whose sins are covered.
eng	For until the law, sin was in the
eng	world; but sin is not charged when
eng	For the wages of sin is death, but the
eng	free gift of God is eternal life in
eng	Christ Jesus our Lord.
eng	For the mind of the flesh is death, but
eng	the mind of the Spirit is life and
eng	No, in all these things, we are more
eng	than conquerors through him who loved
eng	There they will be called ‘children
eng	of the living God.’”
eng	And how will they preach unless they
eng	are sent? As it is written:
eng	if by any means I may provoke to
eng	jealousy those who are my flesh, and
eng	may save some of them.
eng	For even as we have many members in one
eng	body, and all the members don’t have
eng	Love doesn’t harm a neighbour. Love
eng	therefore is the fulfilment of the law.
eng	but now is revealed, and by the
eng	Scriptures of the prophets, according
eng	to the commandment of the eternal God,
eng	is made known for obedience of faith to
eng	“They will see, to whom no news of
eng	Greet one another with a holy kiss. The
eng	assemblies of Christ greet you.
eng	For seeing that in the wisdom of God,
eng	the world through its wisdom didn’t
eng	know God, it was God’s good pleasure
eng	through the foolishness of the
eng	preaching to save those who believe.
eng	Brothers, I couldn’t speak to you as
eng	to spiritual, but as to fleshly, as to
eng	For, I think that God has displayed us,
eng	the apostles, last of all, like men
eng	sentenced to death. For we are made a
eng	spectacle to the world, both to angels
eng	But brother goes to law with brother,
eng	and that before unbelievers!
eng	Only, as the Lord has distributed to
eng	each man, as God has called each, so
eng	let him walk. So I command in all the
eng	But food will not commend us to God.
eng	For neither, if we don’t eat, are we
eng	the worse; nor, if we eat, are we the
eng	I therefore run like that, not
eng	aimlessly. I fight like that, not
eng	If I partake with thankfulness, why am
eng	I denounced for that for which I give
eng	But let a man examine himself, and so
eng	let him eat of the bread, and drink of
eng	When one member suffers, all the
eng	members suffer with it. Or when one
eng	member is honoured, all the members
eng	Therefore let him who speaks in another
eng	language pray that he may interpret.
eng	that he was buried, that he was raised
eng	on the third day according to the
eng	But someone will say, “How are the
eng	dead raised?” and, “With what kind
eng	of body do they come?”
eng	But with you it may be that I will
eng	stay, or even winter, that you may send
eng	me on my journey wherever I go.
eng	For we write no other things to you,
eng	than what you read or even acknowledge,
eng	and I hope you will acknowledge to the
eng	being revealed that you are a letter of
eng	Christ, served by us, written not with
eng	ink, but with the Spirit of the living
eng	God; not in tablets of stone, but in
eng	tablets that are hearts of flesh.
eng	Therefore we don’t faint, but though
eng	our outward man is decaying, yet our
eng	inward man is renewed day by day.
eng	in beatings, in imprisonments, in
eng	riots, in labours, in watchings, in
eng	So although I wrote to you, I wrote not
eng	for his cause that did the wrong, nor
eng	for his cause that suffered the wrong,
eng	but that your earnest care for us might
eng	be revealed in you in the sight of God.
eng	But I have sent the brothers that our
eng	boasting on your behalf may not be in
eng	vain in this respect, that, just as I
eng	said, you may be prepared,
eng	But “he who boasts, let him boast in
eng	If I must boast, I will boast of the
eng	things that concern my weakness.
eng	Now I pray to God that you do no evil;
eng	not that we may appear approved, but
eng	that you may do that which is
eng	honourable, though we are as reprobate.
eng	And they glorified God in me.
eng	For as many as are of the works of the
eng	law are under a curse. For it is
eng	written, “Cursed is everyone who
eng	doesn’t continue in all things that
eng	are written in the book of the law, to
eng	I beg you, brothers, become as I am,
eng	for I also have become as you are. You
eng	A little yeast grows through the whole
eng	But far be it from me to boast, except
eng	in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ,
eng	through which the world has been
eng	crucified to me, and I to the world.
eng	But God, being rich in mercy, for his
eng	great love with which he loved us,
eng	Therefore I ask that you may not lose
eng	heart at my troubles for you, which are
eng	and that you be renewed in the spirit
eng	Wives, be subject to your own husbands,
eng	for which I am an ambassador in chains;
eng	that in it I may speak boldly, as I
eng	Having this confidence, I know that I
eng	will remain, yes, and remain with you
eng	all, for your progress and joy in the
eng	since he longed for you all, and was
eng	very troubled, because you had heard
eng	In nothing be anxious, but in
eng	everything, by prayer and petition with
eng	thanksgiving, let your requests be made
eng	in whom we have our redemption,
eng	having stripped the principalities and
eng	the powers, he made a show of them
eng	openly, triumphing over them in it.
eng	knowing that from the Lord you will
eng	receive the reward of the inheritance;
eng	for you serve the Lord Christ.
eng	but having suffered before and been
eng	shamefully treated, as you know, at
eng	Philippi, we grew bold in our God to
eng	tell you the Good News of God in much
eng	to the end he may establish your hearts
eng	blameless in holiness before our God
eng	and Father, at the coming of our Lord
eng	Jesus with all his saints.
eng	and to respect and honour them in love
eng	for their work’s sake.
eng	Let no one deceive you in any way. For
eng	it will not be, unless the departure
eng	comes first, and the man of sin is
eng	revealed, the son of destruction,
eng	The greeting of me, Paul, with my own
eng	hand, which is the sign in every
eng	letter: this is how I write.
eng	but (which becomes women professing
eng	godliness) with good works.
eng	For every creature of God is good, and
eng	nothing is to be rejected, if it is
eng	received with thanksgiving.
eng	Don’t receive an accusation against
eng	an elder, except at the word of two or
eng	longing to see you, remembering your
eng	tears, that I may be filled with joy;
eng	But you remain in the things which you
eng	have learnt and have been assured of,
eng	knowing from whom you have learnt them.
eng	if anyone is blameless, the husband of
eng	one wife, having children who believe,
eng	who are not accused of loose or unruly
eng	whom he poured out on us richly,
eng	through Jesus Christ our Saviour;
eng	Also, prepare a guest room for me, for
eng	I hope that through your prayers I will
eng	Your years will not fail.”
eng	For he has been counted worthy of more
eng	glory than Moses, because he who built
eng	the house has more honour than the
eng	he again defines a certain day, today,
eng	saying through David so long a time
eng	afterward (just as has been said),
eng	of the teaching of baptisms, of laying
eng	on of hands, of resurrection of the
eng	dead, and of eternal judgement.
eng	For he of whom these things are said
eng	belongs to another tribe, from which no
eng	one has officiated at the altar.
eng	not according to the covenant that I
eng	made with their fathers,
eng	For this reason he is the mediator of a
eng	new covenant, since a death has
eng	occurred for the redemption of the
eng	transgressions that were under the
eng	first covenant, that those who have
eng	been called may receive the promise of
eng	the eternal inheritance.
eng	The Holy Spirit also testifies to us,
eng	Now faith is assurance of things hoped
eng	for, proof of things not seen.
eng	What more shall I say? For the time
eng	would fail me if I told of Gideon,
eng	Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel,
eng	for they could not stand that which was
eng	commanded, “If even an animal touches
eng	the mountain, it shall be stoned” ;
eng	I strongly urge you to do this, that I
eng	may be restored to you sooner.
eng	But he who looks into the perfect law
eng	of freedom, and continues, not being a
eng	hearer who forgets, but a doer of the
eng	work, this man will be blessed in what
eng	Indeed, we put bits into the horses’
eng	mouths so that they may obey us, and we
eng	guide their whole body.
eng	To him therefore who knows to do good,
eng	and doesn’t do it, to him it is sin.
eng	searching for who or what kind of time
eng	the Spirit of Christ, which was in
eng	them, pointed to, when he predicted the
eng	sufferings of Christ, and the glories
eng	that would follow them.
eng	“a stone of stumbling, and a rock of
eng	let him keep his tongue from evil,
eng	For let none of you suffer as a
eng	murderer, or a thief, or an evil doer,
eng	or a meddler in other men’s matters.
eng	I think it right, as long as I am in
eng	this tent, to stir you up by reminding
eng	This is now, beloved, the second letter
eng	that I have written to you; and in both
eng	of them I stir up your sincere mind by
eng	This is how we know that we know him:
eng	if we keep his commandments.
eng	Beloved, now we are children of God,
eng	and it is not yet revealed what we will
eng	be. But we know that, when he is
eng	revealed, we will be like him; for we
eng	will see him just as he is.
eng	By this God’s love was revealed in
eng	us, that God has sent his one and only
eng	Son into the world that we might live
eng	We know that whoever is born of God
eng	doesn’t sin, but he who was born of
eng	God keeps himself, and the evil one
eng	Jude,  a servant of Jesus Christ, and
eng	brother of James, to those who are
eng	called, sanctified by God the Father,
eng	and kept for Jesus Christ:
eng	Behold,  he is coming with the clouds,
eng	and every eye will see him, including
eng	those who pierced him. All the tribes
eng	of the earth will mourn over him. Even
eng	“I know your works and where you
eng	dwell, where Satan’s throne is. You
eng	hold firmly to my name, and didn’t
eng	deny my faith in the days of Antipas my
eng	witness, my faithful one, who was
eng	killed amongst you, where Satan dwells.
eng	I am coming quickly! Hold firmly that
eng	which you have, so that no one takes
eng	Now when he had taken the book, the
eng	four living creatures and the
eng	twenty-four elders fell down before the
eng	Lamb, each one having a harp, and
eng	golden bowls full of incense, which are
eng	the prayers of the saints.
eng	for the great day of his wrath has
eng	come; and who is able to stand?”
eng	The angel took the censer, and he
eng	filled it with the fire of the altar,
eng	and threw it on the earth. There
eng	followed thunders, sounds, lightnings,
eng	I saw a mighty angel coming down out of
eng	the sky, clothed with a cloud. A
eng	rainbow was on his head. His face was
eng	like the sun, and his feet like pillars
eng	A great sign was seen in heaven: a
eng	woman clothed with the sun, and the
eng	moon under her feet, and on her head a
eng	crown of twelve stars.
eng	It was given to him to give breath to
eng	it, to the image of the beast, that the
eng	image of the beast should both speak,
eng	and cause as many as wouldn’t worship
eng	the image of the beast to be killed.
eng	and glorify your name?
eng	He carried me away in the Spirit into a
eng	wilderness. I saw a woman sitting on a
eng	scarlet-coloured animal, full of
eng	blasphemous names, having seven heads
eng	saying, ‘Woe, woe, the great city,
eng	she who was dressed in fine linen,
eng	purple, and scarlet, and decked with
eng	gold and precious stones and pearls!
eng	He seized the dragon, the old serpent,
eng	which is the devil and Satan, who
eng	deceives the whole inhabited earth, and
eng	bound him for a thousand years,
eng	Its wall is one hundred and forty-four
eng	cubits,  by the measure of a man, that
eng	Amen! Yes, come, Lord Jesus.
